Guided participation occurs as adults help children structure activity participation based on their development and bridge current and new understandings and skills (Rogoff, 1990; Vygotsky, 1978)BREAK Inquiry-based guidance is one approach to guided participation that has been studied in early childhood educational settings as a way of encouraging children to explore the world around them (Ermeling, 2010; French, 2004; Gerde, Schachter, & Wasik, 2013; Inan et al., 2010). When adults employ inquiry guidance, they use open-ended questions to encourage children’s inquisitiveness, exploration, and problem solving (Edwards, Gandini, & Forman, 2011)BREAK  Inan et al. (2010) examined the impact of inquiry-based guidance on science education in a preschool classroom and found that this approach led to children deeply engaging in activities and learning science process skills, such as hypothesizing and questioning (Inan et al., 2010). These findings were similarly observed in the classrooms studied by Ermeling (2010). In his study, teachers were taught to let children question and seek knowledge, rather than giving children all of the answers, which was shown to help the children better understand the material. Inquiry processes can include the seven steps of the scientific method: observation, asking questions, making hypotheses, experimenting, analysis and conclusion, communication, and asking new questions (Gerde et al., 2013). . A modified scientific method to study inquiry was used by French (2004), who grouped the inquiry processes into the four units of (1) reflect and ask, (2) plan and predict, (3) act and observe, and (4) report and reflect. This method, in conjunction with multiday projects, was shown to support children’s engagement in higher order cognitive skills, such as predicting and reflecting. Gerde et al. (2013) stated that inquiry as a lens of learning carries beyond science experiences and leads children to explore and question in other activities, such as group play and outdoor time.BREAK 