Good science teaching and learning has been framed as (scientific) inquiry (e.g., Anderson, 2002); this framework refers to instructional environments that allow students to construct knowledge through a process of active scientific investigation und evaluation of empirical evidence.BREAK Furtak, Seidel, Iverson, and Briggs (2012) suggested defining inquiry in terms of two dimensions: a cognitive and a guidance dimension. Regarding the cognitive dimension of inquiry, Minner et al. (2009) concluded, “having students actively think about and participate in the investigation process increases their science conceptual learning” (p. 20). Consistently, Duschl (2008) identified conceptual, epistemic, and social aspects of inquiry. The conceptual domain includes knowledge on science concepts and principles, the epistemic domain consists of knowledge on how scientific understanding is generated, and the social domain comprises collaborative and communicative processes for the construction of science knowledge. To realize these aspects of inquiry, science curricula should, for instance, include cognitively challenging and authentic tasks and materials, evidence, scientifically orientated questions, and student discussion and argumentation (see also Furtak et al., 2012). Regarding the guidance dimension, IBSE has been commonly classified according to the degrees of freedom with which the students operate, that is, the degree of guidance for inquiry (e.g., Bell, Smetana, & Binns, 2005), accompanied by a debate on the effectiveness of open or minimally guided versus guided inquiry (e.g., Hmelo-Silver, Duncan, & Chinn, 2007; Kirschner, Sweller, & Clark, 2006). Typically, the degree of guidance has been defined by the role of the teacher during learning activities (i.e., ranging from student-directed to teachersupported inquiry). However, guidance can also be provided to students by curriculum or by peers (see Furtak et al., 2012). High levels of guidance are particularly important for fostering student learning when the subject matter is complex and challenging and prior knowledge is limited (e.g., Hardy, Jonen, M€oller, & Stern, 2006; Hmelo-Silver et al., 2007). Despite the large body of research in science education, educational practice is far from what scientists have proposed (e.g., Treagust & Duit, 2008), and teachers and students are often challenged to reach the curricular learning goals. In general, conceptual development is considered to be a slow and gradual process rather than a dramatic gestalt-type shift between paradigms (Caravita & Hallden, 1994). Children spontaneously construct their own explanations of scientific phenomena through their daily life experiences (Carey, 2000). From a scientific point of view, however, students’ preinstructional conceptions are often partially or entirely inadequate. Furthermore, conceptual understanding places high demands on students’ language proficiency because inquiry involves analyzing, summarizing, and presenting science information in oral or written formats (Lee & Fradd, 1998). Sufficient language proficiency is needed for understanding written tasks, explaining and discussing science concepts, and participating in collaborative and communicative processes for the construction of conceptual understanding (e.g., Akerson, Flick, & Lederman, 2000; Osborne, Erduran, & Simon, 2004; van Boxtel, van der Linden, & Kanselaar, 2000). Accordingly, oral and written language skills are closely connected to both the cognitive and the guidance dimensions of inquiry. However, because high levels of guidance makes complex learning more tractable and dificult tasks more manageable (Hmelo-Silver et al., 2007), additional guidance may provide particular support to students with poor language proficiency, and hence be especially beneficial for students at risk of not achieving the curricular learning goals in science.