IBSE is pedagogically complex, and the concept does not have a single meaning (Garritz 2012; Newman et al.2004). In general, however, it is characterized by being an educational approach which: … means students progressively developing key scientific ideas through learning how to investigate, and building their knowledge and understanding of the world around them. They use skills employed by scientists such as raising questions, collecting data, reasoning and reviewing evidence in the light of what is already known, drawing conclusions and discussing results (Inter-Academy Partnership [IAP] 2010, p. 19). Among other things, this perspective on science learning requires the pupils to carry out ExA (Caamaño 2012; Criado and García-Carmona 2011; Harlen2014). Pupils will observe, investigate, and develop an understanding of natural phenomena through direct experience with those phenomena (Science Community Representing Education [SCORE] 2013). They will therefore be able to make use of basic scientific skills in order to learn science by doing science (Hodson 2014). The promotion of ExA is thus a recommended starting point for the initial levels of education (Harlen 2014).BREAK  there seems to be some agreement that scientific inquiry has the following characteristics (Lederman et al. 2014): (i) all scientific inquiries begin with a question or problem that does not necessarily have to be oriented to testing a hypothesis; (ii) there is no single set of steps to be followed in every inquiry, i.e., there is no single scientific method; (iii) scientific inquiry processes are guided by the question that has been posed; (iv) different researchers following the same process may get different results; (v) the inquiry processes followed may influence the results; (vi) the conclusions of the research must be consistent with the data acquired; (vii) the scientific data (numbers, descriptions, images, etc.) are not the same as scientific evidence (product of data analysis and interpretation); and (viii) the explanations (inferences) are developed from a combination of the data that has been acquired and what is already known in science about the phenomenon. As mentioned above, hypothesis formulation is not necessary nor even appropriate in all scientific inquiries, although in most of them it is. Hypotheses are statements of tentative solutions to the problems so as to guide the development of the inquiry. Depending on the nature of the inquiry, three types of hypothesis can be distinguished (Guisasola et al. 2006):
& Descriptive hypotheses, stating something that has not yet been confirmed. Such a hypothesis is related to factual knowledge (events, phenomena, facts). & Explanatory hypotheses, speculating about the reasons why things are as they are. These hypotheses relate to knowledge of the Bwhy^ (explanations, models, theories…). Predictions are made from this type of hypothesis through deductive reasoning. The predicted result would be that reached if the hypothesis were true. & Procedural hypotheses, referring to knowledge of the Bhow^ to carry out experiments, make measurements, and other procedural practices. Such a hypothesis is related to doing, modifying, and refining test and measurement methods.BREAK & Confirmation inquiry. The teacher presents the pupils with a question and indicates the procedure to follow to obtain results known beforehand, in order either to confirm or strengthen a scientific idea, or to practice specific skills of data acquisition and organization. & Structured inquiry. The question and the procedure are still set out by the teacher, but now the pupils have to construct a scientific explanation using the data they recorded and the evidence these data provide. & Guidedinquiry.Thepupils nowdesignand followtheirownprocedures to collectdataand draw conclusions in response to a question posed by the teacher. & Open inquiry. The pupils formulate their own questions for inquiry, and design and carry out their own procedures, collect the data, and report their findings and conclusions.