 It can be argued that understanding science implies also some understanding of the practices involved in scientific inquiry, aspects of which are essential for the teaching of scientific subjects. Hacking (1992, 1995), by mapping the actual laboratory science activities practiced by scientists and subjecting them to a systematic bottom-up analysis, suggested that theoretical ideas, evidence and material world are entities internal to scientific inquiry and that making connections between them is characteristic of scientific practice. Based on Hacking’s framework, Psillos, Tselfes and Kariotoglou (2004) suggested that, in educational contexts, establishing connections between theoretical ideas, evidence and material world is essential in assisting children’s understanding in science and their scientific thinking.BREAK   The teaching of science through inquiry methods aims at enabling young children to obtain experiences that are authentic to scientific experience (Peters, 2006), and is thought to make their learning more meaningful and to improve their scientific understanding (Hogan 2000; Hogan & Maglienti, 2001). Inquiry is considered by many (e.g. de Boo, 2000; Lind, 1999; Novak, 1977) as a major area of interest in young children’s education in science. Research findings overwhelmingly support the teaching of science through inquiry (see Lind, 1999); and National Science Education Standards (NSES, American National Research Council, 1996) advocates, in line with the guidelines from the Association for the Education of Young Children (Bredekamp & Copple, 1997), that children at all grade levels and in every domain of science be given the opportunity to use scientific inquiry and to develop the ability to think and act in ways associated with scientific inquiry, including skills such as conducting investigations, using appropriate tools and techniques to gather data, thinking critically and logically about relationships between evidence and explanations, and communicating scientific arguments. Co-ordination of evidence and theory involves inquiry skills, which is why inquiry is considered inherent to science. It involves scientific thinking that relies on both concepts and procedures, the latter being those we ‘tend to have in mind when we speak about scientific thinking as analytical and critical thinking or, especially, the thinking which connects evidence and theory’ (emphasis added) (Eshach & Fried 2005, p. 327). Yet learning with understanding involves the development of ideas through the learner’s own thinking and action, and in science this means developing the skills to deal with new situations (Harlen, 1996). Lind argues that pre-primary-level science is an active enterprise ‘…seen as a way of thinking and trying to understand…’. Educators should, therefore, aim at introducing young children to the investigative nature of science, fostering their understanding and use of the modes of reasoning of scientific inquiry and relating new science knowledge both to previously learned knowledge and to new experiences of phenomena (Lind, 1999; NSES 1996). BREAK  These situations must be planned in advance. Educators, whose role is to lead children in their conceptual thinking (Fleer, 1993), should provide them with appropriate materials and activities, progressively increasing in conceptual depth and complexity, in order to develop their scientific reasoning (Bredekamp & Cople 1997; Eshach & Fried, 2005; Lind, 1999).BREAK As was discussed earlier, theoretical ideas, evidence and the material world are, according to Hacking (1992), entities internal to scientific inquiry and, in educational contexts, connections between them are essential in assisting children’s understanding in science and their scientific thinking (Psillos et al., 2004)__
