to conceptualise science teaching in our setting: exploration, observation, interpretation (making sense) and mediation (guiding).BREAK Exploration With no prescribed content for science, and with an emphasis on learning through play, early years teachers in England can allow children both the opportunity and time to explore their environment, which is a natural component of children’s play (Farmery, 2002; Howe & Davies, 2005). Exploration requires children to be actively engaged in their environment, taking risks to explore the unknown, asking questions and being interested in, and learning from, new experiences. This kind of exploration enables children to question why things happen and to start to make inferences as a result (Schulz, 2012). Through exploration of objects, children can explore how they work: what does it do? and how they might exert influence: what can I do with it? (Bjorklund & Gardiner, 2011, p. 154). Exploration of the world is, therefore, at the heart of scientific enquiry for young children. Through their exploratory play, children can develop scientific concepts, knowledge and skills (Johnston, 2005). For example, through water play, children can explore concepts such as buoyancy, finding out, through classification, which items will float or sink.BREAK Observation To be effective explorers, it is logical to expect children to have keen observation skills. Observation has been recognised as a vital skill for early childhood science learning (deBóo, 2006; Harlen, 2000). Children are natural observers and learn much from watching and copying others as well as when actively exploring on their own or collaboratively. These everyday observations help them to understand the world around them (Rogoff, 2003). However, for the purpose of science learning, Johnston (2005) pointed out that observation should go beyond just seeing:it should involve all senses and be used to identify similarities, differences, patterns and sequences in the environment. In other words, everyday observation involves noticing and describing the world, but scientific observation involves interpretation. For example, in exploring sounds made by different containers, children should be encouraged to look, touch and listen, and, in the process, be supported to interpret their observations: Do similar objects make the same sound? Which objects make the quietest or loudest sound? Interpretation and mediation Interpretation, that is, sense-making,is also highlighted in the statement about science from EYFS. For scientific thinking to develop through children’s exploratory play and observations, children should, at some stage, be able to interpret and make sense of their experiences so that they can gain a better understanding of the world around them. This, in our view,is a key component of science in the early years in our setting: developing enquiring minds and scientific thinking to enable children to interact with and understand their environment. Whilst we explained previously that early childhood teachers tend to view science as a body of knowledge, children can learn scientific concepts and gain new knowledge through exploring their world (Kallery, 2004), with the caveat being that exploration is the starting point. As Bruner conceptualised, the aim of education is to promote enquiry and skill in the process of knowledge production, rather than memorise a body of knowledge: ‘Knowing is a process, not a product’ (Bruner, 1966, p. 72). An important point to make is that the theory that children will spontaneously ‘discover’ scientific concepts whilst exploring and observing for themselves is questionable(Harlen,2000),and the role of the teacher is vital in facilitating young children’s development in science (Blake & Howitt, 2012; Harlen, 1999; Johnston, 2009). As Howe and Davies (2005) explain, young children’s learning in science builds on prior knowledge through social interaction. Black and Hughes (2003) and Lemke (2001) concur and stress the vital role that language plays in co-constructing ideas about science and understanding the world. This suggests that science learning for young children is contextualised, bound by their prior knowledge and the socially constructed knowledge that develops through their interactions with the people around them. In assisting children to make sense and interpret the world around them as a result of their explorations and observations, teachers are required to mediate children through this process. This active role for teachers resonates with Vygotskian sociocultural theory in which adults or moreable peers mediate children’s learning to enable them to reach levels of understanding that they could not reach alone (Vygotsky, 1978, 1986). To this aim, Howe and Davies (2005) claim that all exploration within early childhood settings should be carefully planned by the practitioner and suggest that evenapparently ‘free’ exploration by children should be part of an intentional sequence of activities designed by teachers to develop children’s scientific thinking. However,they caution that the role of the adult within children’s exploration is not always direct and should vary from observation of and/or playing alongside child-initiated exploration; intervening at key times to question and suggest ways forward and initiating activities for the deliberate development of specific scientific thinking (p. 159). The balance of knowing not just when, but how to interact and intervene in children’s exploration is a significant and nuanced skill on behalf of the teacher. Knowing when to intervene is a pedagogic skill that covers all aspects of children’s learning and is the focus of most preservice training. Addressing how to interact with children’s exploration in science, as discussed previously, is not an area of strength for early childhood teachers. How to interact in science teaching is the central premise of this paper in order to provide a framework that all staff can use to assist in the development of scientific enquiry with young children.
