Experiential education is often oversimplified as Blearning by doing^ (Breunig 2008; Roberts 2011). John Dewey is often regarded as one of the Bfounders^ of experiential education. Dewey believed that subject matter should not be learned in isolation and emphasized the important role of the local community and out-of-classroom BREAK _Experiential education embraces transdisciplinary learning experiences to create and recreate knowledge as part of the educative process. Transdisciplinary experiential education extends beyond the commonplace reference to Bhands on^ learning activities (i.e. field trips or internships) to include problem-based learning, project-based learning, inquiry-based learning, community-academic partnerships, and student-directed learning, among other transdisciplinary pedagogies (Breunig 2017). BREAK One transdisciplinary, classroom-based platform for student-centred experiential education that acknowledges the relationship between individuals and their social and natural environments is inquiry-based learning (Gordon 2009; Savery2006). Inquiry-based learning specificallyinvolves the open-endedinvestigation intostudents’ intuitive queries with teachers serving as provocateurs in moving students forward in their own inquiries (Ontario Ministry of Education 2013). In viewing children as knowledge-possessing and capable of critical engagement in their own lives, inquiry-based learning places a focus on children’s own questions, observations and interpretations of the world around them as a primary method of instruction (Fielding 2012; Savery 2006).BREAK One transdisciplinary, classroom-based platform for student-centred experiential education that acknowledges the relationship between individuals and their social and natural environments is inquiry-based learning (Gordon 2009; Savery2006). Inquiry-based learning specificallyinvolves the open-endedinvestigation intostudents’ intuitive queries with teachers serving as provocateurs in moving students forward in their own inquiries (Ontario Ministry of Education 2013). In viewing children as knowledge-possessing and capable of critical engagement in their own lives, inquiry-based learning places a focus on children’s own questions, observations and interpretations of the world around them as a primary method of instruction (Fielding 2012; Savery 2006).BREAK  typical of experiential, inquiry-based learning, which is student-centered and involves questioning, gathering information, and discussing and reflecting on ideas to generate new knowledge (Breunig 2013; Savery 2006).
