describe inquiry as “authentic questions generated from students’ experiences” (p. 21). The NSES further assert that When engaging in inquiry, students describe objects and events, ask questions, construct explanations, test those explanations against current scientific knowledge, and communicate their ideas to others. They identify their assumptions, use critical and logical thinking, and consider alternative explanations. In this way, students’ activity develops their understanding of science by combining science knowledge with reasoning and thinking skills. (p. 2 BREAK Drawn from the tenets of constructivist learning theory (Eick & Reed, 2002), inquiry has been characterized as both an orientation (i.e., nature of science) and a process (i.e., method of science) (Bianchini & Colburn, 2000). Lambert (2007) describes the processes “as knowing, inferring, analyzing, judging, hypothesizing, generalizing, predicting, and decision-making” (p. 389). The scientific method allows students to identify the problem, formulate a hypothesis, design an investigation, make and record observations, interpret data, and explain the results (Crawford, 2007; NRC, 1996). Bodzin and Beerer (2003) used the processes of science to develop the Science Teacher Inquiry Rubric (STIR). The STIR can be used to rate inquiry-based practices across six categories (those categories are explained later). We used these categories to obtain process data on the inquiry-based practices of prospective teachers in their first year of the study. In practice, Windschitl (2003) describes four types of science inquiry: (1) confirmation experiences or “cookbook labs” that are used to verify a known fact, (2) structured inquiry through which students are given the question and procedure to discover an unknown answer, (3) guided inquiry through which teachers allow students to investigate a prescribed problem using their own methods, and (4) open inquiry through which students form their own questions and conduct independent investigations (p. 114).BREAK 