The purpose of this paper is to present a detailed case study of how a pre-service teacher implemented forensic science within a preschool four-year-old classroom as a form of guided scientific inquiry.  BREAK Inquiry-based learning Contemporary learning theory states that learning is most effective when students are active participants within the learning process, when the learning proceeds from experiences to explanations, when students existing knowledge is used as the platform to develop new explanations, and when teachers are prepared to support students in the learning process Anderson2002; Hackling2007. An inquiry-based approach to learning, where students are actively involved in finding answers to their own questions, incorporates all of these conditions. Learning science through an inquiry approach involves students in asking questions, exploring and investigating phenomena through the manipulation of materials, gaining experiences and making observations, and then developing explanations for those experiences Hackling2007. At the heart of inquiry-based learning is the student trying to make sense of the phenomena under study Crawford2009. As such, this approach actively engages students in learning, encourages curiosity and excitement of discovery, develops knowledge and understanding of scientific ideas, supports students in using data as evidence, and allows students to experience working like a real scientist Anderson2002; Crawford2007. Within early childhood education, inquiry learning appears to commonly follow that of guided inquiry. A guided inquiry approach provides structured experiences of the phenomenon and leads to the collection of observations that can be used to develop explanations for the phenomenon Hackling2005. Guided inquiry therefore involves guided and collaborative participation Hedges2000 between the teacher and children through steps that may involve manipulating materials; making observations or measurements; or recording, discussing or interpreting observations Hackling2005. Guided participation acknowledges the role of children as active agents and communicators in their own learning Hedges2000p18. One of the key issues in guided inquiry is to select an appropriate context and learning experiences that allow young children to create meaningful new knowledge, based on the cognitive resources they bring to the task Samarapungavan-etal2008. These authors further commented on the need to provide appropriate instructional support, as young children are universal novices p903, lacking experiences with science as a discipline as well as having limited cognitive tools for literacy and numeracy. Such support included modelling aspects of inquiry, guiding science discourse, and assisting young children to better understand the scientific inquiry process Samarapungavan-etal2008. There appears to be limited research on the outcomes of inquiry learning on young children. However, a few relevant studies were located. Samarapungavan-etal2008 examined United States kindergarten no age given childrens science learning, using a guided inquiry approach into the life cycle of the monarch butterfly. Their results indicated that kindergarten children were able to successfully engage in the practices of scientific inquiry and to conduct empirical investigations to extend and revise their biological knowledge. As measured through an analysis of portfolios, they found the children were highly proficient in generating questions, making predictions, observing and recording data, and communicating their findings, while proficient in using empirical evidence to extend, elaborate or revise their knowledge. Also in the United States, Peterson and French2008 examined preschool three- and four-yearold childrens explanatory language through science inquiry in a five week unit on colour mixing. Through analysis of discourse the children were found to engage as conversational partners, scientific investigators and dynamic co-constructors of explanations. These results demonstrate that young children can successfully engage in scientific explanation and inquiry.
