Through inquiry methods, the teaching of science aims to enable young children to obtain experiences that are authentic to scientific experiencePeters,2006 and this is thought to make their learning more meaningful and to improve their scientific understanding Hogan,2000; HoganMaglienti2001. But, and it is a big but, Rop2002 work suggests that questioning – inquiry – is necessary but not sufficient: there need also be receptive contexts for questions. When faced with an outpouring of questions, teachers and parents are actually ambivalent at best. They commonly listen to a childs open curiosity with contradictory feelings: the need to honour the childs question, give her or him time and patient support in the struggle to understand content – all of which is then weighed against the seemingly incompatible need to maximize teaching time, cover the expectations of the school and get on with things. Even less compassionate is when teachers perceive a childs questions as annoying, going against the grain, an impediment, overbearing and a test of patience, particularly when these arrive too frequently, or seem set to challenge received common wisdom. There are only so many times an adult can answer why questions one after the other in rapid succession without losing patience or exhorting a greater power Because I say so!!. These different teacher attitudes impact upon the ways questioning is encouraged or discouraged during school or nursery time. In reality, teachers are very concerned with such micro-politics of real classroom life. Recent work PedrosadeJesus-etal2012 illustrates just how context-sensitive is the asking of questions. In this sense, a receptive context is the set of entities that influence action in a particular setting, situation or on a specific occasion Brezillon20032005, in particular the physical, emotional, and intellectual environment that surrounds an experience and gives it meaning Caudron2000p55. A positive, receptive, context for questioning moves beyond usual practices in teaching; it is the prime criterion for building an environment where childrens classroom questions are the norm. Not all classroom contexts arepositive, and there are numerous instances where childrens questions are dismissed, not welcomed, let alone acted on.  BREAK Moreover, there are many types of questions, some that are answerable and many that are not WattsPedrosadeJesus2006. Of interest here is a mode of questioning that focuses on empirical work, those questions that can lead to investigation, experiment and some resolution. Investigable questions ChinKayalvizhi2002; GraesserMcMahen1993 require a particular form of construction BREAK .But is it science? through just three ingredients central to education in the early years: first, empirical question-asking; second, transgressive play; and third, good thinking BREAK So, our tack is that inquiry-based learning, manifest within the three ingredients above, is vastly important not solely because it allows entry into science, but because it works powerfully well across different disciplines. Second, there are many more processes entailed within science that also need to be encouraged before it can appropriately be called science.  BREAK According to ChinKayalvizhi2002 and Arnold2009, a good investigative question requires learners to generate and collect data for a selected pathway; represent, analyse and interpret their findings using the data collected; draw a conclusion using their results and justify their findings to the question based on the data they have collected. ChinKayalvizhi2002 further suggest that in order to fully engage children and sustain their interest, these questions should be conceptually challenging, meaningful and relevant to their personal experiences, while remaining broad enough to enable critical and creative thinking. Such challenging questions can spring from odd events, passing thoughts or conversations, a technological problem, some difficult results, a curious occurrence, a chance observation, a fascination with some particular area of life, a claim on a TV advert, a pets habits, a family discussion, a sporting occasion, family obsessions or hobbies. That is, the processes of disequilibrium detection, of problem finding WattsPedrosadeJesus2010, come from childrens interactions with life – and often from the clash between experience of life issues and the overlay of knowledge derived from school and other informative sources through out the early years Watts&Alsop,1995.In some ways, this is a precurser to the Cognitive Acceleration in Science Education notion for older children of cognitive dissonance McCormack-etal2014. That said, ChinKayalvizhi2005 make the point that formulating investigative questions is a skill that needs to be explicitly taught in early years and beyond. ThorntonBruton2015 point to this kind of early-years inquiry as the ReggioEmilio approach, where children are encouraged to develop their own theories about the world and to explore these collaboratively in great depth. Strong value is placed on different experiences, ideas and opinions so that when a child stands at the centre of a paved playground after a heavy spate of rain and asks, Where does all the water go? the childs ideas are respected and taken seriously, and are used as the start point of investigations. ThorntonBruton2015 say it is important to create an environment in which children are unafraid of making mistakes or of reconstructing their ideas 2015p17. The adult intervenes as little as possible but observes, listens, interprets and facilitates the childs inquiry by providing interesting experiences and resources. In this respect, there is no predetermined curriculum to determine what children must learn; the educational experience is generated on an ongoing basis from the questions, ideas and theories put forward by the children supported by the skills, expertise and experience of the educators working alongside them p86.
