With support, early elementary students can engage in productive inquiry, collect and analyze data, produce models, and learn complex concepts.  BREAK  One of the most promising for young children is scientific modeling. Studies have shown that asking students to produce and evaluate models of the real world to help them generate predictions can make it possible for them to effectively participate in the process of scientific knowledge production and learn the content being studied Lehrer and Schauble2006.  BREAK  Our overarching intent for our activities was for them to be the sparks and anchors for modeling conversations. That is, we want students to make observations in an environment that is structured by both the teacher and our designed tools. The tools are intentionally made to be adaptable so that students can represent their own emerging understandings, no matter how accurate or inaccurate they may be. The models students create are then shared, critiqued and refined within the classroom community with the goal of producing a shared collective model that can be used to understand and make predictions in new situations and contexts  Our overarching intent for our activities was for them to be the sparks and anchors for modeling conversations. That is, we want students to make observations in an environment that is structured by both the teacher and our designed tools. The tools are intentionally made to be adaptable so that students can represent their own emerging understandings, no matter how accurate or inaccurate they may be. The models students create are then shared, critiqued and refined within the classroom community with the goal of producing a shared collective model that can be used to understand and make predictions in new situations and contexts. There were two key components to the LPP system: 1 an augmented reality system that uses computer vision to record and display the students physical actions and locations, and 2 software that translates this motion into a physics engine and generates a response based on the sensing data. The LPP system uses commercially available, open source forms of motion tracking and pattern recognition technologies Kato2006 to create an inexpensive alternative to virtual reality within the physical classroom a 12 x 12  carpet at the front of the classroom. Motion tracked by the system is instantly imported into the new LPP computer microworld that allows students to model their understanding of force and motion and compare their predictions to simulated results.  BREAK To summarize, the students started the activity using pretend play skills to make a prediction. The technology translated the students physical motion during play into a augmented reality, computer animation and combined the students motion with symbolic elements that marked important points in the embodied prediction. By the end of the lesson they were engaging in a discussion about modeling and concepts of net force. Through this game-like experience, LPP made it possible for 6–8 year-old students to interrogate their own understanding Rosebery-etal2005 and explore these physics concepts.  BREAK To incorporate play into the LPP curriculum, the teacher engaged students in developing and refining participatory models Danish2009. Participatory models are embodied, dramatic skits where the students enact a key principle of the system being studied, and leverage their body motion and position as a resource for displaying their understanding. Participatory modeling builds upon the kind of productive collective engagement that has been seen in participatory simulations Colella2000, but shifts the focus of student activity from trying to produce some desired result and the affect that accompanies this type of activity to explicitly having students making and evaluating rules that underlie the simulation.
