There are some studies on the limitations of empowering childrens understandings of scientific inquiry processes Metz2004; Samarapungavan-etal2008; Zhang-etal2011. Many indicators reveal that children show interest in inquiry-based programs, and that they acquire the basic skills of the scientific process. Metz2004 reported that parents whose children participated in an inquiry-based instruction stated that their children were interested in becoming a scientist. Eshach2011p442 said,  Children have sufficient cognitive capabilities to engage in scientific inquiry.  Samarapungavan-etal2008 administered a science learning program that was grounded in scientific inquiry and literacy activities. They collected data from both invention and comparison group kindergarten children by using different data collecting tools. Results showed that intervention group children had better scores than comparison group children with respect to acquiring the key aspects of scientific inquiry processes and science concepts taught in this program. Inquiry is a process that involves wondering, asking questions, collecting data, and answering questions in order to learn what is taking place around us. Inquiry is provoked by a sense of curiosity and is the powerful sense driving human beings to discover something of the world around them. Curiosity is the desire to learn or know about something HarlanRivkin2008p4. Barell2008 stated that children are born with a sense of curiosity, and students at an early age can ask interesting and challenging questions to solve problems. He also suggested some effective activities to foster and keep childrens curiosity such as keeping wonder journals, developing problematic scenarios, and garnering parental support. Furthermore, Rankin2011 expressed that students curiosity can be sustained with an effective pedagogical structure which can provide inquiry experiences. Inquiry requires some skills such as observation, questioning, measurement, classification, and prediction. These are known as the basic science processes Bentley-etal2007; Martin-etal2009, and these are appropriate for kindergarten Martin-etal2009. In fact, we use these processes in our daily lives when trying to solve problems, even if we generally are not aware of using them. Nowadays, educators endeavor to develop new ways to keep childrens scientific curiosity alive or take them much further.  A Nation at Risk Report  is one of the most obvious examples of these endeavors. In 1981, a commission was constituted to present a report on the quality of education in the United States. Almost two years later, the commission released a report named,  A Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform . They examined the quality of teaching and learning in schools. In this report, there were some emphasizes on science education. For example, it was proposed to revise the science courses and recommended using the methods of scientific inquiry and reasoning to raise citizens who are literate in science and technology ANationatRisk1983. In the early 2000s, a strong effort was started in Turkey to revise and develop new curriculum to parallel the new trends in education. With this effort, the main idea in the curriculum has changed from the content centered to the student centered Bulut2007, and it aimed to raise scientifically literate citizens Bahar2006. Therefore, we included a second dimension in the instrument to reveal some clues to understanding the extent to which Turkish preschool students are aware of scientific inquiry processes.
