starting from personal experiences and having students begin young with simple real-life experiences with energy Lijnse1990; Trumper1990. In previous studies VanHook-etal2005; VanHookHuziak-Clark2007b, kindergarten students were able to develop a basic conception of physics concepts air and magnetism when taught with inquirybased lessons that combine hands-on activities with class discussion, a simple conceptual model, succinct phrases cognitive hooks that capture key concepts, and reinforcement through multisensory activities. These elements of RIPE aid student learning when dealing with abstract concepts and new scientific vocabulary. This study of the early childhood RIPE model examines the effect of a set of lessons that provided kindergarten students with a range of experiences to help them begin to develop an understanding of energy.  BREAK the RIPE early childhood instructional model developed by the authors can be effective in teaching physics concepts to early childhood students. The RIPE model includes inquiry-based activities; learning cycle approach to instruction; multisensory activities such as kinesthetic movements, songs, and key concepts; and cognitive hooks to help students remember and apply knowledge. Key to this model is identifying a small set of core concepts and focusing intensely on them rather than trying to address many concepts in a unit. In addition, the concept is phrased in a manner that is as simple and concrete as possible and that is continually reinforced through brief phrases expressing interactions not simply vocabulary words that help students articulate scientific notions about a wide variety of experiences. These cognitive hooks, such as  lift,   squeeze,   stretch,  and  twist,  capture key scientific principles and yet are meaningful to students. The 5E model provides a powerful overall structure to the lessons, engaging students, allowing them to explore the concept, explaining the scientific concept, extending and reinforcing the concept, and evaluating the students understanding throughout. In the RIPE model, it is critical that the explanation of the scientific concept develops from a class discussion of the students ideas and observations, and does not devolve into a lecture about the concept by the teacher.
