In addition, engaging children in the learning processes and providing inquiry-based learning opportunities were useful in enhancing their reasoning and problem solving capabilities, which further furnished them with better understanding of mathematical concepts Kennedy2009; NCTM2000.  BREAK The early learning experience could positively stimulate and enhance young childrens potential for exploring the world in the future. The function of inquiry teaching is to organize activities based on the purpose of discovering problems or creating cognitive conflict scenarios. Meaningful learning of mathematics was to provide enriched mathematical learning experiences where children could be meaningfully guided to discover the structural relationships between concepts connected with numbers and their applications to problems arising from the real world  BREAK Additionally, an inquiry-based approach is seen as vital for children to obtain scientific content knowledge through the problem solving processes NRC2000, which includes identification of assumptions and use of critical and logical thinking, as well as consideration of alternative explanations NRC1996. Based on a philosophy of mathematics education, Richards1991 described inquiry as learning to speak and act mathematically by engaging in mathematical discussions, proposing conjectures, and solving new or unfamiliar problems.  Further, Yackel-etal1990 claimed that childrens mathematical knowledge could not be delivered simply from one teachers instruction but must develop from participation in inquiry-based learning activities instead. Within this participative learning process, children were expected to comprehend what they saw and/or heard and bring up their own explanations.  In short, inquiry-based mathematical instruction emphasizes a child centered approach of  autonomy and manipulation , where children can discover and solve the problems firsthand.  This instructional approach also offers teachers abundant opportunities to observe their kids mathematical opinions and further bridge them toward a path of higher-level mathematical development.  BREAK The focus of inquiry teaching is to organize learning activities on the basis of discovering problems or creating cognitive conflict scenarios, which then provide young children with various opportunities for discovering scientific problems and developing the capability of using critical thinking while working on tasks and constructing problem solving solutions NRC2012.  Thus, every childs role is that of an enthusiastic thinker, actively engaging in the process of questioning, observing, categorizing, explaining, applying, developing, and expressing their own opinions while accepting those of others, with the ultimate goal of being capable of solving problems and understanding their rationale NRC1996;NRC2012.  In this study, we employed the 5E Instructional Model Bybeeetal2006 in designing the inquirybased learning activities of the targeted curriculum, including five phases an inquirybased learning cycle: engagement, exploration, explanation, elaboration, and evaluation.  Based on constructivism, this model provides a basis for teachers to use diverse teaching strategies to advance their childrens active learning Bybee1997.  By building up an inquiry learning environment, children can both explore and explain what they have learned OrgillThomas2007, as well as detect and solve life-related problems in their own ways ChangWu2015.  BREAK  With this approach, childrens learning processes were not  try and error  attempts but the systematic learning of problemsolving in a meaningful context.  Moreover, according to the tenets of Constructivism, the learner constructs his/her own understanding through experience;  problematic experience can initiate the learning process and subsequent experiences lead to changes in understanding and action  Osterman1998p4.  As a result of interactions between new and past experiences, authentic learning of a new concept is constructed. Therefore, learning is an active process requiring childrens engagement.  In the teaching of mathematics, teachers need to create an enriched learning environment full of life experiences and meaningful contexts; this precept was fully applied in our design.__ In relation to the constructivity principle, it was suggested that teachers design hands-on activities with the use of realistic and concrete objects manipulatives whereby kids can be stimulated both physically and mentally to sense the structural relationships firsthand.  BREAK In summary, in this project, Dieness1973 theory of learning mathematics was applied in designing the targeted curriculum for children, ages 3-6, in which an inquiry-based instructional approach was employed.  The model was based on his six stages of learning mathematics.   Free experiments  and  comparison  were merged as a  problem solving  procedure.  Representation  and  symbolization  were integrated for stimulating childrens expression and communication.  The result was that we developed a  four-stage developmental model  for structuring sequential learning procedures in every lesson: 1 free play: exploring problems; 2 exercising your brain: problem solving; 3 s/he, you, and I: expression and communication; and 4 just doing it: integrated inquiry  BREAK Mathematical teaching procedures 5E inquiry-based learning cycle Constructing learning contexts and free play Engagement Choosing and initiating inquiry-based activity Engagement, exploration Posing and deciding exploratory questions Exploration Planning and executing problem solving methods Exploration Observing cognitive behaviors Explanation Designing an activity which causes cognitive conflicts Explanation Concluding experiences of inquiry-based activity Elaboration, evaluation Providing resembling and/or extending activities Evaluation    
