Inquiry-based science education is considered to be an important current trend in
science education reform. Scientific inquiry generally refers to the diverse ways in which scientists study the natural world (Liang & Richardson, 2009, p. 51). More
than a procedure or a method, it is a process of investigating how, why or what, and then making sense of the resultant findings (Bhattacharayya, Volk, & Lumpe,
2009). Based on standards developed by the American National Research Council (NRC, 1996, 2000), many researchers (Avraamidou & Zembal-Saul, 2010;
Cuevas, Lee, Hart, & Deaktor, 2005; Howes, Lim, & Campos, 2009; Liang & Richardson, 2009; Lin et al., 2009; Park Rogers, 2009; Smolleck, Zembal-Saul, & Yoder, 2006; Varma et al., 2009) mention six essential features of classroom
inquiry that apply across grade levels. Learners address scientifically oriented questions; plan and carry out investigations to gather evidence; give priority to evidence in responding to questions; formulate explanations for evidence; connect explanations to scientific knowledge; and communicate and justify explanations. Scientific inquiry
includes investigating natural phenomena through experimentation and higher thinking. This refers to thinking that goes beyond mere recording of data or mechanically
applying concepts. The focus of inquiry is on the creation, testing and revision of scientific models and explanations, to create new knowledge and scientific reasoning
(Schwarz & Gwekwerere, 2007). NRC describes inquiry as ‘a multifaceted activity
that involves making observations; posing questions; examining books and other
sources of information to see what is already known; planning investigations; reviewing
what is already known in light of experimental evidence; using tools to gather,
analyse and interpret data; proposing answers, explanations and predictions; and
communicating results’ (NRC, 1996, 2000, p. 23). Other definitions also encompass
processes such as using investigative skills; actively seeking answers to questions about
specific science concepts; and developing the ability to engage, explore, consolidate
and assess information. Inquiry is not a linear process; rather, aspects of inquiry interact
in complex ways (Cuevas et al., 2005). Classroom inquiry introduces pupils to the
content of science as well as the process of investigation. It provides the logical framework
that enables students to understand scientific innovations (Smolleck et al.,
2006).___Science education researchers have developed an
inquiry continuum that classifies classroom inquiry into different levels from structured
inquiry to open inquiry. To determine whether a lesson activity can be categorised
as full or partial inquiry, one must consider the amount of student and
teacher involvement in each of the essential features of classroom inquiry (Smolleck
et al., 2006; Varma et al., 2009). Leonard, Boakes, and Moore (2009) and Liang
and Richardson (2009) refer to Windschitl (2003) who described several levels of
science inquiry: (1) traditional laboratory confirmation experiences providing
pupils with step-by-step procedures to verify known principles in structured
inquiry; (2) structured inquiry in which the teacher presents a question, lab equipment
and procedures for pupils to discover an unknown answer; (3) guided inquiry
through which teachers allow pupils to investigate a prescribed problem using their
own methods of gathering and analysing data and drawing conclusions; (4)
student-directed inquiry, in which the teacher presents a topic and lets pupils
develop their own questions and design their own investigations; (5) open inquiry through which pupils form their own questions and conduct independent
investigations.___There is empirical and theoretical evidence to support the assumption that inquirybased
science is a starting point first for increasing the motivation of pupils to learn
about science (Lin et al., 2009); second, for applying research skills (Cuevas et al.,
2005) and third, for personal construction of meaning and deeper learning of
content knowledge (Luera & Otto, 2005; Weld & Funk, 2005). School science
courses are often seen as dull and unexciting by pupils (Bhattacharayya et al.,
2009); and science as inquiry is considered to be an important part of the solution
to that problem. Pupils are offered more hands-on activities, with the aim of
making science dynamic and physical and allowing pupils to feel comfortable with
the subject (Howes et al., 2009). Giving them more opportunities to carry out investigations
does not guarantee their engagement in learning; however, if pupils are
encouraged to plan their own learning activities, they are more likely to get involved
in a task (Lin et al., 2009).
Inquiry-based science education complements the natural curiosity of pupils by
encouraging them to ask questions, try things out and evaluate the outcomes (Howes
et al., 2009). Pupils should know how to pursue their own questions about the world
around them. This pursuit, however, does not happen naturally in the classroom,
and pupils will need to be supported in their attempts to understand phenomena.
When science is taught through the process of inquiry, pupils have the opportunity to
pose questions and seek answers based on observation and exploration. Pupils can
then use the evidence gathered throughout this process to answer their own questions
that may arise. Inquiry allows pupils the opportunity to explore, yet simultaneously
requires them to learn something about how science research is conducted.
Many educational theories presume that people learn best through direct personal
experience and by connecting new information to what they already know
(Bhattacharayya et al., 2009). Therefore, corresponding educational paradigms
have shifted from reproducing knowledge towards asking scientifically oriented questions
and searching for evidence in responding to questions (van Zee, Hammer, Bell,
Roy, & Peter, 2005) and towards active, self-regulated learning aimed at (co-) construction
of knowledge (Marble, 2007; Piaget, 1985). Thus, a rich learning environment,
with a focus on inquiry-based learning, creates opportunities for pupils to
identify their assumptions, use critical and logical thinking, internalise or transform
new information, which then allows them to create and expand their individual cognitive
structures (Smolleck et al., 2006). Through these activities, pupils develop their
understanding of science by combining science knowledge with reasoning and thinking
skills (Cuevas et al., 2005). Inquiry learning supports (long-term) conceptual
understanding by supplementing the learning of scientific concepts and facts. Thus,
inquiry-based science can lead to better performance in science classrooms. In
summary, inquiry-based education might lead to a higher degree of scientific literacy,
i.e. the knowledge and understanding of scientific concepts and processes required for
personal decision-making, participation in civic and cultural affairs, and economic
productivity. Scientific literacy includes specific types of abilities (NRC, 1996), and it expands and deepens over a lifetime, not just during the years in school. But, the
attitudes and values established towards science in the early years will shape a
person’s development of scientific literacy as an adult. Primary school teachers
influence pupils’ attitude and values towards science and the development of
pupils’ scientific literacy (Shymanski et al., 2004).
