"It is difficult to exactly trace the first appearance of inquiry instruction, but it was born out of the
longstanding dialogue about the nature of learning and teaching, in particular from the work of Jean Piaget,
Lev Vygotsky, and David Ausubel. The work of these theorists was blended into the philosophy of learning
known as constructivism (Cakir, 2008), which was then used to shape instructional materials. These kinds of
constructivism-based materials are commonly classified under the moniker of inquiry-based and include
hands-on activities as a way to motivate and engage students while concretizing science concepts.
Constructivist approaches emphasize that knowledge is constructed by an individual through active thinking,
INQUIRY-BASED SCIENCE INSTRUCTION 475
Journal of Research in Science Teaching
defined as selective attention, organization of information, and integration with or replacement of existing
knowledge; and that social interaction is necessary to create shared meaning, therefore, an individual needs to
be actively engaged both behaviorally and mentally in the learning process for learning to take place (Cakir,
2008; Mayer, 2004). As constructivist approaches permeated much of educational practice in the 1970s, it
became particularly prominent in science education through the focus on inquiry.
The term inquiry has figured prominently in science education, yet it refers to at least three distinct
categories of activities—what scientists do (e.g., conducting investigations using scientific methods), how
students learn (e.g., actively inquiring through thinking and doing into a phenomenon or problem, often
mirroring the processes used by scientists), and a pedagogical approach that teachers employ (e.g., designing
or using curricula that allow for extended investigations). However, whether it is the scientist, student, or
teacher who is doing or supporting inquiry, the act itself has some core components. TheNRCdescribes these
core components from the learner’s perspective as ‘‘essential features of classroom inquiry’’ (NRC, 2000, p.
25) including:
(1) Learners are engaged by scientifically oriented questions.
(2) Learners give priority to evidence, which allows them to develop and evaluate explanations that
address scientifically oriented questions.
(3) Learners formulate explanations from evidence to address scientifically oriented questions.
(4) Learners evaluate their explanations in light of alternative explanations, particularly those reflecting
scientific understanding.
(5) Learners communicate and justify their proposed explanations.
The National Science Education Standards would add one more to this list: learners design and conduct
investigations (NRC, 1996). There is more consensus regarding what students should learn about scientific
inquiry than howteachers should instruct students (Anderson, 2007). For example, within each of the features
of classroom inquiry listed above, there can be varying degrees of direction from the teacher. The amount of
direction and decision-making done by the teacher versus the student has produced distinctions such as open
and guided inquiry (NRC, 2000). However, these distinctions are often poorly articulated by scholars and
practitioners alike. For example, the way in which ‘‘minimally guided instruction’’—said to be synonymous
with constructivist, discovery, problem-based, experiential, and inquiry-based instruction—was defined by
Kirschner, Sweller, and Clark (2006) is not the way that most inquiry-oriented practitioners or researchers
would describe these kinds of instructional approaches—which do have instructional guidance throughout
the learning process (Hmelo-Silver, Duncan, & Chinn, 2007). "
