Researchers devised the Practice Profile of Inquiry (CaseyBruce2011; Caseyetal2009), based_on the elements of the Inquiry Cycle with additional ratings for participation, print literacy, and use of digital media. This was proposed as a tool to help teachers in planning projects and activities to optimize learning. As seen in Table 2 the Profile may be regarded as a matrix of questions encouraging the teacher to map anticipated activities (such as group work, use of digital media, use of texts, and so on) to elements of the Inquiry Cycle. In this way a constant emphasis on question situations was maintained and inquiry_framed as five constituent elements: ask, investigate, create, discuss, and reflect was enabled, sustained, and enriched through the range of planned activities. The discussion here is confined to illustrating how surface, deep, and implicit dimensions of pedagogy may be gleaned from observational data. To achieve this the authors present redacted research field notes from one of the case studies titled  How to Make a Banana Split.  The case described here involved a class of 23 boys (8 to 9 year_olds) being taught by a recently qualified female teacher with the aid of a special resource teacher. The project spanned three weeks and the stated aim for the class was to produce an audiovisual slide show on how to make a banana split. It began with teacher and pupils discussing what ingredients they would need to make the banana split; the teacher reviewed key vocabulary words on cards and helped the boys to follow the steps for the recipe. The pupils then photographed their work as they made the banana split. Pupils worked in groups and each had been assigned a role such as note taker, photographer, and banana split maker. When complete, there was much fun in eating the finished banana splits. The class then used photo story software to make a slide show of the process. They had to order the photos, add text and transition effects to the images, and add background music to the presentation. With teacher support, they discussed suitable background music for presentation, and each group got to choose a piece. The boys made four movies and had a showcase in school of their work. BREAK There is also a deep structural dimension to the pedagogy whereby the pupils learned about the process and practice of inquiry. In designing the class activities, the teacher created controlled conditions for inquiry. Leaving unsupported, pupils may not have had the ability to draw upon, manage, or direct all of their natural impulses toward the project goals. Often the teacher directed and guided classroom activities: at times seeking to arouse curiosity, at other times specifying individual roles within group work, and still at other times encouraging discussion and reflection. While the pupils were learning the practice of inquiry, the functions of the teacher involved directing, modeling, and often scaffolding the inquiry process.  BREAK  But there was a deep structure of learning how to collaborate. The task per se was not the final end. Moreover, this practice, involving both teacher and students, had the implicit structure for all participants of conceiving learning as a social activity and valuing the perspectives and contributions of others.   BREAK For primary education, where learners have a world of opportunities ahead, the signature pedagogy cannot be as sharply defined. Instead, it needs to be a set of practices and conceptions that support more openended inquiry. The authors have argued here for inquiry itself as the signature pedagogy for general education, and the Inquiry Cycle as a way to manage it in the classroom.
