My intent was that children would gain hands_on experience with scientific inquiry and explore the rain and water cycle to a deeper degree than typical in the Kindergarten curriculum. Given the nature of my internship timeframe, I chose to use a teacher guided mini project approach that consists of three phrases described below. BREAK We started the investigation with how weather affects us and then journeyed into why it rains, delving into the water cycle for Phase 2. The project took the route of exploring the water cycle from this point forward as they seemed to already understand how weather affects them on a regular basis. I think it was a good way to explore the topic and their prior knowledge and now we were ready to explore the questions,  why does it rain?  and  where does rain come from?   BREAK As a class, we set up our first rain measure experiment outside by the playground at the school (see Figure 5). The children checked the measuring cup and recorded the results 'every day' for two weeks. Unfortunately, it did not rain much during these two weeks. Children, nonetheless, helped me measure with a ruler to see how many inches the rainfall equaled as we learned from the internet research that rainfall is recorded in inches. Next, the class did an experiment to simulate rain fall (see Figure 6). I used clear plastic cups, shaving cream, water and blue food coloring for the experiment. I explained that we were going to pretend that the shaving cream on top of the water was a cloud and that when clouds get too heavy and full of rain drops it rains, which is called precipitation. I chose this experiment to implement because I wanted the children to engage in a hands_on scientific experiment. I also wanted to emphasize the concept that when clouds get too full and heavy, it rains. This experiment did both. My first attempt to demonstrate the experiment was not successful as I had made too big of a  cloud , but I used this moment to teach them not to put too much shaving cream in their cups. At the end of the experiment, we decided to save the cups and observe what happens to them over time. We revisited it later and I asked the students for observations about the  cloud  and the color of the water as it had deepened and the shaving cream had begun to disintegrate BREAK With the information from the rain measure experiment during Phase 2, I constructed a graph and the children compared, contrasted, and interpreted the information with some guidance from me (see Figure 8). The children explored the internet with me before I made the graph in order to learn how to gather data online. I connected social studies to this lesson by including the rainfall recordings from all the states and countries the children are from. they really like_affect this aspect and I believe this gave them a sense of inclusion and pride for what countries and states were represented culturally within our class. Also, we compared our findings with the rain fall experiment to the official city recordings posted online. They were able to deduce the states with the least and greatest amounts of rain without any help. The children also concluded that it was due to evaporation that our recorded findings were less than the reported rainfall for Tampa. Candice said  Its hot outside, maybe the water evaporated.  Quite a few others made similar comments and after a discussion, they all agreed that this is why our findings were less than the recorded ones online. For the culminating activity and to wrap up what we learned, the class learned a song that explains the water cycle utilizing the new vocabularies (see Figure 9).
