Over the 6 consecutive week planning and implementation phase, the PTs meeting and worked with the kindergarten students in a 60_minute work session each week. During the teaching weeks, the PTs also meeting as a whole class following the teaching experience to further plan and debrief their work sessions. Each teaching session was structured so that the PTs worked in pairs or in smallgroup  with the same students throughout the duration of the project. Each week, the PTs worked together to design a lesson plan for the subsequent weeks teaching experience based upon what they learned and experienced in the knowledge development phase and from their own evaluations of the students’ progress and work samples. Each weekly lesson was designed around the 5E model of inquiry to encourage student engagement, exploration, explanation, elaboration, and evaluation BSCS2006 and took place both inside the classroom and outside on school grounds. In each lesson plan, the PTs provided science journals for the students and various artistic media and digital cameras. The teaching sessions provided opportunities for open-ended investigations between the PTs and kindergartners as they explored the progression of seasonal change together. BREAK Drawing during science experiences can serve to support engagement, representation of student understandings, and as a strategy for learning (Ainsworthetal2011). Students  science_related drawings allow teachers to embed meaningful, formative assessment into the science learning experience. Likewise, digital images captured during science explorations can serve as a form of representation. Digital images taken by the students can be used to: document and communicate their experiences, collaborate with other students, promote observation, recall or activate schema, increase self_expression efficacy, and prompt discussion (BlagojevicThomes2008; NeumannHinds2007). BREAK why leaves change color in autumn, BREAK Recommended early science learning experiences that drive a guided, inquirybased include: identifying and asking questions that can be answered through investigation, designing and conducting investigations, using appropriate tools and equipment, learning to develop logical conclusions, and communicate understandings to peers and others (NSTA2004). BREAK The Draw A Scientist Test (draw a scientist test) was first utilized by Chambers1983 as a means to explore scientist stereotypes among children ages 5_11 years. It has since been used in numerous, international studies of children and adults as a means to explore participants  understandings about the nature of science and scientists (Brosnan1999; MaoldomhnaighHunt1989; Parsons1997; SongandKim1999). In the draw a scientist test, participants are asked to draw an image of a scientist and then, that drawing is explored for the presence of gender, scientific tools, and cartoon_like captions. BREAK Through the incorporation of writing, drawing, clay work, or digital photography, the science journals provided a physical space for the kindergarten students to make their thinking visible. BREAK  movement from a cartoonish representation of the outdoors to a more focused, scientific observation of the color and structure of the leaves. BREAK PTs need direct_own experience with inquiry_based teaching in order to appreciate the strengths and challenges associated with the approach
