they were striving to teach inquiry_oriented lessons; asking questions and defining problems; planning and carrying out investigations; analyzing and interpreting data; using mathematics and computational thinking; and obtaining, evaluating and communicating information. BREAK Scaffolding Young Learners in Scientific Investigations Teachers will need support to help young students develop their own questions to investigate. Some student questions may not be realistic to investigate with readily available materials in elementary classrooms. Discussions with teachers about how to select or modify questions that students generate would be useful during PD experiences. This type of modeling and discussion will help teachers to later guide students in selecting and modifying their own questions. Students and teachers are likely to improve in their designing of realistic , data driven questions with practice and modeling. The NGSS suggest that students should be able to use counting and numbers to identify and describe patterns in the natural and designed world(s) and make observations and or measurements to collect data that can be used to make comparisons, record information, and compare predictions to what occurred and communicate information using drawings, writing, or numbers by the end of grade 2 (2013AppendixFp10). Teachers will need to carefully plan activities that allow students to collect data in ways that capitalize on their emerging sense of numbers. In primary grades, some students may be unable to engage in practices such as the use of counting and numbers to identify and describe patterns in the natural and designed world(s) until they understand concepts such as one_to_one correspondence and the magnitude of numbers (VandeWalle, KarpBayWilliams2010). The integration of mathematics and science in early grades can facilitate student development in both areas but can also be a challenge to students that struggle with foundational number concepts. Our findings about the lack of alignment between students  number sense and data collection techniques employed by their teachers suggest that more explicit training is needed on the alignment of science and mathematics instruction. PD that focuses on integration of mathematics and science may be helpful to teachers as they strive to integrate NGSS with their mathematics curriculum (Baxteretal2014). While the NGSS explicitly makes connections between the science standards and the Common Core State Standards, teachers will need to recognize that students may need additional conceptual understanding in one area (such as number concepts) before they are ready to engage in another area (such as data analysis).
