I used multiple criteria in the selection of these three vignettes. BREAK  Scientists advance their knowledge across a range of inquiry practices, including armchair analyses such as thought experiments, critical analysis of the work of others (in written work and firsthand interactions), and empirically grounded work. The curriculum scaffolds all of these inquiry practices. I wanted to include excerpts of children engaged in different forms of these inquiry practices. I also wanted to include at least one excerpt from both the botany and animal behavior curricula. Drawing excerpts of enactment from near the beginning, midpoint, and end of the curriculum enables illustration of how the childrens deepening knowledge supported the power of their thinking and increased responsibility. Given the fundamental importance the instructional model places on childrens assuming primary responsibility for their investigation as well as its privileged place as the final activity, their engagement in these investigations seemed critical to include. based_on these criteria, I selected: (a) a thought experiment, from the beginning of the animal behavior curriculum; (b) an empirical investigation, from the middle of the botany curriculum; and (c) dyads  conceptualization, implementation, and critique of their own studies, drawn from both animal behavior and botany curriculum enactments. BREAK in botany and animal behavior, intended to function as the biology component of the science curriculum for a school year (Metz2002a2002b).  BREAK Challenge I: Consider the puzzling behavior and generate hypotheses. As explained to the class (accompanied by images of Amazon Ants and their course traversing their environment), Lucy and her grandfather have noticed a curious pattern in the behavior of the Amazon Ants: they consistently follow the same path back to their anthill that they took going out. So how do they do it? What clues are they using? These first graders have no difficulty understanding what Lucy and her grandfather considered puzzling about the ants  behavior or generating possible explanations to account for this behavior. Without any further guidance at this point, the children offer many ideas for how the Amazon Ants might be finding their way home, before the teacher cuts off this discussion to move to the next phase of the thought experiment. BREAK This lesson, very close to the beginning of the curriculum, introduces children to scientific inquiry and assesses their competence at engaging in critical aspects of the practice. In accordance with Mayrs representation of the essential features of the epistemic practice, the scientific inquiry thought experiment invites children to take on a puzzle that emerges from close observation of the phenomenology, generate hypotheses to potentially explain the puzzle, and design tests of a hypothesis. BREAK Challenge II: Generate a test of the smell hypothesis. The next challenge in the inquiry thought experiment consisted of designing a test for a hypothesis. The curriculum initially framed this challenge in terms of coming up with a way of testing the hypothesis that Lucy and her grandfather first thought most plausible: the Amazon Ants find their way home by leaving a little scent beyond them as they go out from their anthill and then returning by following this smell.  BREAK What are all the different ways that seeds disperse? Just before this focus on how seeds disperse, these first graders had engaged in an extended thought experiment to explore why seeds disperse, framed in terms of the potential survival value of broad seed dispersal. 6 The teacher begins this lesson by contrasting the issue of why seeds disperse with the issue of how they disperse. BREAK inquiry consists simply of  making observations about the world, either looking carefully at things or trying to see what happens  (Driveretal, p141). BREAK Synopsis. Building knowledge to the point where dyads assume primary responsibility for their own investigations constitutes a core design principle of this instructional model. This last vignette examines the interplay of scaffolds and childrens thinking in the context of their investigations, pursuing questions about which they are curious. Inquiry at this point is maximally ill_structured. Increasing the cognitive demand on the children (and the teacher), all of the pairs are investigating different questions. This demanding epistemic enterprise is made possible by the experiences and knowledge children bring to the task and the scaffolding provided, all with a strong metacognitive emphasis to support childrens increasing responsibility for decision making and control. BREAK Obviously the practices of scientists will always be markedly different from those of children in elementary school science classrooms. However, the extent of the gulf between practices in these two contexts is typically much larger than necessary, with costs to childrens understanding of science as a way of knowing, their interest in science, and their competence in engaging in inquiry.
