5_week curriculum module on color mixing, in which children had opportunities to manipulate and observe colors mixing using various media including paint, cellophane, sheer scarves, and colored water. BREAK  smallgroup  hands_on science activities in both classrooms. Circle Time typically consisted of routines such as songs and rollcall, teachers leading a large group discussion about the science topic, storybook reading, and teachers directing children to activity centers. Large group discussion was followed by hands_on activities (set up as one of a number of  centers  offered to children during Choice Time), during which the teachers introduced the children to the materials and purpose of the activity at the table, and the children worked on the specified activity with the assistance of the teacher. In cases when more than one hands_on science activity was offered in the same day, the activity led by the lead_teacher was videotaped. BREAK 1. Picture 1 description task: Students were shown a picture and asked to  tell me what is happening in this picture.  Picture 1 depicts  Curi the curious bear  (children are familiar with this character from narrative assessment tools used in the curriculum) pouring blue and yellow paint from two separate jars into one empty container on the table in front of her. 2. Picture 2 description task: Same format as #1. Picture 2 depicts Curi the bear holding the two now empty jars and looking at the container in front of her, now filled with green paint. 3. Narrative task: Students were shown both pictures side by side (Picture 1 on the left) and asked to  tell me a story about these pictures.  4. Question task: Students were asked  Why does Curi have green paint?  5. Sentence 1 completion task: Students were asked  Now tell me: Curi has green paint because..?  6. Sentence 2 completion task: Students were asked  Now tell me: Curi mixed blue paint and yellow paint, so..?  7. Repetition task 1: Students were asked to  Repeat after me: Curi has green paint because she mixed blue and yellow paint.  8. Repetition task 2: Students were asked to  Repeat after me: Curi mixed blue and yellow paint, so she has green paint.
