This work is part of a larger 3_year project conducted in kindergarten through secondgrade classes in the European country of Luxembourg that focuses on childrens processes and constructions of science within curriculum activities that address water as a natural element BREAK  Four different types of activities were set up, three of which were indoors and one which was outdoors. Within the classroom, the three sets of activities included drawing water scenes, computer games that were based_on water environments, and tracing the water flow through a faucet. Our analysis herein focuses solely on the outdoor activities, in which children were able to move through three different stations setup to investigate with water. We have chosen these outdoor activities to focus on because they show childrens interactions as they engage in investigating with water (rather than representing water, as in the indoor activities). These outdoor stations consisted of tubs of water with a variety of container sand funnels. One of the tubs of water that the children were interacting around in the episodes that follow is shown in Figure 1. The children were able to move around the schoolyard quite freely and were often seen borrowing containers from students at other groups or filling up buckets with more water to bring to their tubs. Children moved in and out of the classroom, and from table to table, as they investigated the materials available and also observed what the other participants were doing. Two of the teachers stayed in the classroom with the children working in doors, and one of the teachers moved from group_to_group outdoors, interacting with the children at the water tubs. In her interactions, she repeatedly asked children the same question:  wou_ass_am_meeschten_dran?,  which translates to  where is the most [water] in?  This question structures the groups  activities, as children within the groups work to make sense of the question. This question is quite a challenging question in that i tasks which container has the most water in it, rather than the more typical school science focus about potential illustrates this self_organized activity, seen frequently among the various groups of children in all the settings. BREAK  we propose that as children engage in discourse in interaction around the open_ended investigation of water, the following occurs: Doing science  emerges from a goal_oriented activity that frames the childrens actions. This mutual interaction creates a discourse of science. Children make relevant their everyday ways of participating within their science related interaction practices. They use and modify other discourse formats from other goal_oriented activities that are familiar to them. 3. Children display an awareness of  doing science,  as they collaboratively orient to a specific format for completing the activity. They enact discursive structures that reveal science within unfolding dialogue. BREAK For us, science is a human activity, one which comes into existence as it is done within interaction, whereby interactants are continually shaping, and are being shaped by, the activity and the constructed context through multiple situated interactions. Thus, science emerges from the  doing,  which includes physical processes and experiences as well as dialogic interactions (Ash2004). We share an understanding that as science is done it is talked into being (Gallas1995; Lemke1990). The dialectical approach allows us to move beyond traditional static and linear models to work toward a depiction of the complexity of human interaction and experience that depicts social phenomena as  multiple systematically interacting elements  (EngestromMiettinen1999p9). Through these frameworks, science learning, thinking, and knowing are addressed within our study at an early moment of becoming a participant in  doing science.
