The DAP guidelines emphasise that curriculum content from various disciplines such as math and science should be integrated into a diversity of activities, including projects and play, so that children can develop conceptual understanding and also draw connections across disciplines to enhance and deepen learning (CoppleBredekamp2009; Tu2006). Two_step We had a random ladybug adventure the other day. I was on top of the playground, and a ladybug was on the rail next to me. I got it on my finger, walked down to the mulch with it, and they were all,  Oh my goodness! Its a ladybug!  We asked questions, talked about that. That was a 30_minute activity. We all let the ladybug crawl up our arms, we took turns and she flew away. Observing . Questioning Three_step Today, they actually dug up rocks with their hands. That was a random thing, they just wanted to do, and they wanted to keep the rocks, so we let them take them home. Before they put them in their cubby , we talked about some senses about them.  What do you see? Do you see that its clean or is it a dirty rock?  Its a dirty rock.  Is it a soft or is it a hard rock? Is it cold or is it warm?  So they put it to their face.  Its cold.  That was just a spur of the moment children just bringing me rocks in the playground today.. Observing . Questioning . Collecting data/ evidence Four_step While we were outside we saw holes in the ground. They noticed that yesterday. And you know how the ants have like the little orange sandy looking dirt, and it had a little hole. And then one of the little boys noticed that one of the ants was going down inside the hole. I said,  Oh, you found his house! That is where he lives!  And so then we started going around the playground looking for homes. And then there were some bigger holes and I said,  Well what do you think, what kind of animal do you think went in this hole?  Because it was bigger, it was kind of like mole holes, because of the mulch. And I said  What kind of animal? They started naming different animals I said, Well you know rabbits sometimes live in holes ; and moles.  So we kind of got in a big conversation about what kind of animals live under the ground. Observing . Collecting data/ evidence . Questioning . Creating explanations Five_step We got new playground equipment. They had to dig up the ground and everything so we could not go out on the playground. What we did was we took them every day outside on the porch and we lined them up to watch the workers work. We talked about what they were doing with this big equipment.  What is that doing? what is happening?  We took pictures of everything that happened. Then after it was over and we finally got to play on our new playground, we actually made a sequential game with the pictures of what had happened to our playground. They had to put what happened first, what happened next, and what happened at the end. We played on it. Even when we can t use the play ground, I have found ways to go outside and talk about it. They were just so interested in it. You can find a way to do it even if its not your actual outside time. Observing . Questioning . Collecting data/ evidence . Creating explanations . Reporting BREAK Findings of the two studies reported here highlight the need for inclusion of developmental, sequential steps of inquiry that bring childrens thinking full circle; simply observing and questioning are not sufficient to help them gain understanding of complex concepts
