For example, while children might learn about the processes of scientific inquiry through a unit on the growth and development of butterflies, a proximal assessment might assess their understanding of inquiry processes through items that include other or different content.  BREAK inquiry processes such as observing, predicting, measuring and recording data, or hypothesis testing BREAK 1. Here are picture of three children (show pictures): Which of these children is doing science? (a) Gina observes a butterfly; (b) Tom plays the guitar; (c) James practices dancing. 2. Here is a picture of a frog (show picture). These girls ask questions about the frog (show pictures). Listen to each question and tell me which girl asked a science question: (a) What does this frog eat? (b) Do you like_affect this frog? (c) Can I call this frog Lilly? 3. Here is a picture of a fish (show picture of black and white striped fish). Here are three boys (show pictures). I will tell you what each boy said about a fish. (a) That fish has black and white stripes; (b) I have a pet goldfish at home; (c) Fish like_affect to swim in groups. Which of these boys saw the fish in this picture? 4. Here is a picture of a ball (show picture of red ball at rest). Here are three girls (show pictures). I will tell you what each girl said: (a) This ball can bounce; (b) This ball is red; (c) My dress is green. Which of these girls made a prediction about the ball? 5. Tony, John, and Gina are on the playground (show picture: John and Gina are on the teeter totter. John is on the end that is down to the ground and Gina is on the side that is up in the air. Tony is standing beside them.) Listen to what each child says. Then tell me which child makes a prediction about the teeter totter: (a) Tony says,  If I push down on Ginas side, John will go up;  (b) John says,  I want to go up Gina;  (c) Gina says,  I am having lots of fun.  Which of these children makes a prediction about the teeter totter? 6. (Show pictures) Two girls found an egg. The girl in green thinks it is a duck egg. The girl in blue thinks it is a goose egg. How can they find out what it is? (Correct answer: Watch it hatch, study its shape, etc.) 7. Here are some tools we use to do science (show pictures): Which of these can you use to help you remember what you saw? (a) Science notebook; (b) Magnifying glass; (c) Stopwatch 8. Here are some tools we use to do science (show pictures): Which of these can you use to look at something very small such as a bug? (a) Microscope; (b) Rain gauge; (c) Digital scale 9. Here are some tools we use to do science (show pictures): Which of these can you use to measure how hot something is? (a) Thermometer; (b) Rain gauge; (c) Pan scales BREAK Classroom activities are built around science topics and skills linked to the state academic standards for kindergarten and are mapped to science, English/language arts, and mathematics standards. They also are consistent with current guidelines for developmentally appropriate practice (NationalAssociationEducationYoungChildren2003).  In School 1, the kindergarten teachers and their students engaged in a sequence of inquiry activities to explore the properties of living things and the theme of growth and development through the life cycle of the monarch butterfly. The inquiry unit, which was developed for SLP, integrated a variety of inquiry and literacy activities and was implemented twice a week over a 5_week period (see Samarapungavanetal2008, for a detailed description of the intervention). As part of the unit, children engaged in learning activities grouped into three broad phases as follows:  1. Preinquiry activities introduced children to key ideas about the nature of science, provided them with the procedural framework for their investigations, and incorporated book readings to provide relevant background knowledge. 2. Inquiry activities were centered on the growth and development of live monarch larvae on milkweed plants. Children started by formulating questions and making predictions about the larvaes growth and development, then they observed and recorded what happened in their science notebooks (using words, digital images, and drawings), and finally they drew conclusions about the monarch life cycle based_on their records. During this phase, children read books about the characteristics of insects to extend their knowledge.  3. Postinquiry activities were designed to help children reflect upon and communicate what they had learned (e.g., through posters that they shared). During this phase children read books on the butterfly life cycle to systematize what they had learned through their own inquiry. Science Activities in School 2. The kindergarten teachers in School 2 said that they did not teach science because of the heavy focus on literacy and numeracy, although they sometimes read books on topics such as animals and seasons as part of their literacy activities. They did report that their classes had taken an informal field trip to a nearby nature conservancy.
