Table 1. Main Areas and Concepts Derived from the Indicators in the Program Main Areas Concepts Indicators Life science Living things Understand living and non_living concepts. Understand living things have life cycle (they are born, develop into adult, and die). Understand the parts of the plants (such as seed, stem, root, leaf and flower) physicsProperties of the Objects, Heat and Temperature, Sound Understand that there is not always a linear relationship between sizes and masses of the objects. Understand what the objects are made of. Understand the objects magnets interact with. Understand the concepts of hot and cold. Understand people hear the sound with their ears. Understand the properties of sound such as high and low volume. Earth/ Space Science Day and Night Understand the concepts of daytime and nighttime. BREAK Table 2. The Integration of the Indicators to Scientific Inquiry Processes Targeted understandings in the Scientific Inquiry Processes Indicators in the Turkish Preschool Program Understand science as a process of inquiry is based_on asking questions and making predictions about the natural world. Tell the possible reasons of an event. Tell the possible results of an event. Understand the empirical basis of science: Scientific ideas are evaluated by their correspondence or fit to empirical evidence. State the problem. Make some suggestions for the solution of the problem. Choose the most suitable suggestions for the solution of the problem. Test the chosen suggestions. Make a decision the most suitable suggestion for the solution of the problem. Explain the reasons of the decision. Understand simple tools used to gather, record, analyze, and share data.Predict the result of the measurement. Measure using non_standard units. Compare the measurement results with predicted results. Explain the functions of the tools that measure time. Use the concepts with regard to time in accordance with their function State the problem. Make some suggestions for the solution of the problem. Choose the most suitable suggestions for the solution of the problem. Test the chosen suggestions. Make a decision the most suitable suggestion for the solution of the problem. Explain the reasons of the decision. Understand simple tools used to gather, record, analyze, and share data.Predict the result of the measurement. Measure using non_standard units. Compare the measurement results with predicted results. Explain the functions of the tools that measure time. Use the concepts with regard to time in accordance with their function.
