The aim of this work is to analyse and describe childrens verbal communication during learning activities concerning the different water phases, especially during different learning contexts with and with out the use of computertablets. More specifically, the research questions guiding this project are the following:& How are young children communicating during work with the water phases? How is this communication influenced by different learning contexts and tablet use? BREAK  The activities with the children were set up with four different organisational forms, i.e. four learning contexts. Group discussion (GD) Stimulated recall in group (SR) Production of Slowmations (PS) Experimentation, without (E) and with timelapse photographing (Et) BREAK the project started with the teacher and one researcher interviewing the children in smallgroup  to find a science phenomenon from the childrens everyday world to study and to capture the variety of ways the children thought about the phenomenon. Childrens ideas about tablet computers and nature of science were discussed, and the children were asked what phenomenon they would be interested in working with. Repeatedly, water, in terms of water you can drink, snow melting etc., were mentioned. From the discussions, it was clear that the idea of water evaporating did not exist among the children. BREAK Observation Children participating Activity 1 a Ellie, Amanda, Markus, Filip, Hanna, Simon, Frida (3_5 years) Ice cubes were put in plates in room temperature, outside at 8 degrees celcius, and in a drying cabinet. A timelapse movie of the ice melting and evaporating in room temperature was created. 1b a Study_Child, Johanna (5 years) Ice cubes were frozen previously by the younger children, and Study_Child and Johanna examined the ice while reasoning about what happens to melted water. 2 Study_Child, Johanna (5 years) Water was boiled in a kettle with a glass lid, stimulated recall was performed with a timelapse movie of water evaporating from a glass bowl in room temperature b, and Slowmation production was discussed. 3 Study_Child, Johanna (5 years) Stimulated recall was performed with a timelapse movie of water evaporating from a glass bowl. Two Slowmations, one of water evaporating from a glass bowl and one of boiling water, were produced. Material: playdough 4 Ellie, Amanda, Markus, Filip, Hanna, Simon, Frida (3_5 years) Stimulated recall was performed with a timelapse movie of water evaporating from a glass bowl. Water was boiled in a kettle with a glass lid, and a timelapse movie of the experiment was created. 5 Amanda, Markus, Simon, Frida (3_5 years) Stimulated recall was performed with the timelapse movie of boiling water made during observation 4, and a Slowmation of boiling water was produced. Material: playdough 6 Ellie, Hanna (4 years) Stimulated recall was performed with a timelapse movie of water evaporating from a glass bowl. Slowmation of water evaporating from a glass bowl was produced. Material: playdough 7 Amanda, Hanna (4 years) Stimulated recall was performed with a timelapse movie of boiling water made during observation 4, and a Slowmation of boiling water was produced. Material: LEGO
