Teacher organised activities, which are activities planned and organised by the teachers according to the objectives that have to be met. This includes choosing activity topics, selecting instruction materials, deciding the didactical approach, and guiding the children at their work. The present study concerns teacher organised activities in the context of science lessons. The content of science activities is drawn from the domains of physics and biology. Physics topics are related to concepts such as weight, colour, sound, light, motion, temperature and magnetism, to properties of matter such as floating sinking, melting, dissolving in water, etc., and to phenomena such as water evaporation, rain, snowfall (and generally changes in the state of matter), rainbows and gravity, plus topics relating to the earth, moon, sun and the phenomenon of day and night. In biology, children are introduced to living things (plants and animals). BREAK The observed lessons, each of 45_minute  duration, dealt with topics from physics, biology and outer space, Reading a book and showing its pictures aims at creating representations relevant to the subject treated in the book. In the first activity, namely  Teacher reads a book and shows its pictures to the pupils , the teachers aimed at creating in the children representations of the real natural world in which the phenomenon may occur. For example, in a  floating and sinking  lesson the teacher reads a book and shows the class a picture in which a child in a bathtub is holding an empty bucket and trying to sink it by pushing it downwards in the water. But the bucket, being full of air, does not sink. During this activity the children responded by recalling evidence from their own experiences, such as  we float in the water when we put our life jackets on . The childrens reactions indicated that they had been mentally transported into worlds with which they had interacted in the past. BREAK In other floating and sinking lessons carried out by different teachers, the use of mostly randomly chosen ordinary objects made of a combination of materials precluded predictions of expected evidence based_on ideas (i.e. variables affecting the objects behaviour in water, e.g. concepts such as shape, size, material) and resulted, once again, in mere guesses from the children. Furthermore, this practice of simply testing childrens guesses resulted only in proving some of them right and some wrong, without addressing their existing ideas. The explanation of evidence is linked to ideas. One explains evidence based_on ones own ideas, thus associating Evidence with Ideas. In the lessons analysed, the teachers asked for explanations and provided their own explanations of the evidence produced at each individual stage of the experimental demonstrations. To explain evidence the children used other evidence, alternative ideas (not the generally accepted scientific ones) and anthropomorphic ideas. Teachers, to explain evidence, also used other evidence, scientific ideas, alternative ideas and anthropomorphic ideas (see KalleryPsillos2001).
