Newtonian force and motion_physics including a series of augmented reality activities.  BREAK At the heart of the project was a set of augmented reality and motioncapture technologies that were used to leverage students  existing competencies in pretend play and to transition them to formal and symbolic models of force and motion. Augmented reality refers to technology that displays computer generated information such as images, sound, and video on top of a view of the real world BREAK We designed the LPP curriculum to focus on four broad force and motion_physics concepts. First we targeted the concept of force including: the causal relationship between force and motion; the difference between force and speed; the fact that once a force ended, the speed of an effected object continued (i.e. inertia); and that impulse forces were an interaction between objects but not the objects themselves. Second, we focused on quantifying the relationship between force and speed, and in particular the application of multiple forces to an object (i.e., net force). Third, students investigated friction as a force. Fourth, the curriculum focused on net forces in two dimensions. These topics correspond to some of the key conceptual stumbling blocks to understanding force and motion_physics (LehrerSchauble1998). BREAK To summarize, the students started the activity using pretend play skills to make a prediction. The technology translated the students  physics motion_physics during play into a augmented reality, computer animation and combined the students  motion_physics with symbolic elements that marked important points in the embodied prediction. By the end of the lesson they were engaging in a discussion about modeling and concepts of net force. Through this game_like experience, LPP made it possible for 6_8 year_old students to interrogate their own understanding (Roseberyetal2005) and explore these physics concepts. BREAK To illustrate how the LPP technologies supported successful modeling, we describe one example activity in which the teacher asked the students to predict how a series of forces would influence the motion_physics of a ball. The students were split into two teams. The first team decided which forces to initially apply to a ball. The second team then chose the forces necessary to stop the ball on a given spot. The target concept was net force, addressing a common intuition that the ball would go in the direction of the last force. We expected that students holding this intuition would predict that when given a force in one direction and a smaller force in the opposite direction, the ball would reverse direction rather than slow down. Susie3, a student chosen to  play  the role of the ball, made her prediction by walking across the rug wearing the symbol for a ball on a hat. We call this type of public performance an embodied prediction. As she walked, she responded to the forces she encountered (i.e., cardboard symbols placed on the floor that represented forces) by speeding up. The system tracked her movement in real time. While the students saw Susie move across the rug, they could also see a ball projected in the LPP microworld moving across the whiteboard, mimicking her movement in the physical classroom. As Susie_as_the_ball passed force symbols (arrows), her peers also became involved, vocally expressing whether they agreed with her prediction. Did she speed up and slow down in the right places? By the correct amount? Thus, the embodied prediction generated public comment and discussion. After Susie finished, the teacher invited the students to continue debating Susies embodied prediction. The teacher began by soliciting student observations about how many forces were in each location and what their impact would be on the ball. Some students expressed common intuitions while others shared more idiosyncratic ideas. The students then had the chance to compare Susies embodied prediction with a simulation built into the microworld that mirrored the choices they had made with the physical objects. Since the cards representing forces had already been laid on the floor as part of their activity, and because the system recognized these patterns as forces that operate in particular ways in the physics engine, all that the students had to do to test their predictions was ask Susie_as_theball to walk back to the beginning and press a button to run the simulation. Now the physics engine took over Susies ball and displayed what would happen for that same scenario in a Newtonian world using the same space and representational system as the childrens pretend play. Ultimately, the students all expressed surprise that their predictions did not match the computer simulation. In the ensuing discussion, students made explicit some of their implicit thinking. This discussion provided a key building block for a series of activities that then lead_to the majority of the students in the group to transform their intuitions and begin to reason in a normative manner about how forces contribute to an objects motion. To incorporate play into the LPP curriculum, the teacher engaged students in developing and refining participatory models (Danish2009). Participatory models are embodied, dramatic skits where the students enact a key principle of the system being studied, and leverage their body motion_physics and position as a resource for displaying their understanding. Participatory modeling builds upon the kind of productive collective engagement that has been seen in participatory simulations (Colella2000), but shifts the focus of student activity from trying to produce some desired result (and the affect that accompanies this type of activity) to explicitly having students making an devaluating rules that underlie the simulation. To summarize, the students started the activity using pretend play skills to make a prediction. The technology translated the students  physical motion_physics during play into a augmented reality, computer animation and combined the students  motion_physics with symbolic elements that marked important points in the embodied prediction. By the end of the lesson they were engaging in a discussion about modeling and concepts of net force. Through this game_like experience, LPP made it possible for 6_8 year_old students to interrogate their own understanding (Rosebery,etal 2005) and explore these physics concepts. BREAK LPP is an important proof of concept project. We aimed to demonstrate that young children can begin their learning trajectory in science off on the right foot both in terms of the complexity of science content and the type of ambitious science instruction that has the potential to lead_to generative inquiry skills and a robust scientific epistemology. Pre_ / Posttest results were encouraging and show that young students are able, with the LPP technology and activities to learn force and motion_physics concepts at an earlier age than thought possible. More generally, we believe this shows that young children need not be limited to memorization of science facts or unstructured explorations just because they cannot design controlled experiments for inquiry. Future work will be needed to further unpack the depth of conceptual understanding that students develop through augmented reality environments and participatory modeling, as well as the role that this type of instruction might play as a building block for subsequent concept learning and for developing students  modeling skills.
