During the programme, teachers were separated into two groups: science and mathematics. BREAK As children were now expected to engage with mathematics and science inquiry in epistemologically similar ways to those used by scientists, so were teachers engaged in this process, by inquiring and researching their own practice. BREAK One of the teachers, after stating that now she felt the need to observe and search, added I have also put the children in this position, every time we are going to do something new, we will investigate and search (Teacher 1.4). So the way the teachers constructed an understanding of their role as teacher-researchers was reflected in the way their practice with children was transformed. From delivering predetermined content knowledge, teachers adopted strategies approaches of enabling the construction of knowledge as process. This seemed to be strongly associated with a change in how they viewed children and teaching. The teachers expressed their amazement at having the opportunity to actually see [their children] learn without being instructed taught (Teacher 1.4): Now I am more open. Before I was more stereotypical. Now lets say I will give the children a problem and through their answers and their representations I will collect data in order to plan the next step. While before I would simply give them the problem and the process would end there. (Teacher 1.1) In reflecting upon the ways in which their practice changed, the teachers very explicitly stated that they had become more open and flexible. They no longer planned activities with a pre-determined end, simply applying them and then moving on to something new. This is exactly what the facilitators had planned and what the teachers had experienced as learners during the programme. The teachers stated that they now planned activities to create dynamic opportunities for learning: they reported that they were now closely observing what the children were doing, valued the childrens perspectives and capitalized on them to dynamically expand the activities: have stopped teaching the numbers separately one by one. This is totally erased from my practice. I do more experiential things with my children, we investigate situations that lead_to us to concepts, everything results through processes of investigation. We get out of the school and look for things and connect everything with the real world. I look for real objects to bring into the classroom and I try so that learning and even what will be learned will result from the children. This was also a change that resulted from my participation in the program. (Teacher 1.4) For me, learning no longer means that someone tells me and I understand. Learning is something that results from my experiences, my problems and questions, my mistakes. the aim is no longer to learn things that they will probably forget. The aim is to look around them and try to make sense of what is happening and to be able to reach conclusions themselves. (Teacher 1.2) 
"
