observations of Lily, age 4 years, experiencing her first visit to a city farm. She stood on the lower slat of a wooden fence, her chin resting on the upper bar, staring intently into a pig enclosure for a long, uninterrupted 20_minute. It became clear later that this was time spent trying hard to reconcile this first meeting with a live pig in all its brown, long_bodied, hairy, muddy, smelly, snorting reality, versus the soft, round, pink, cuddly entities in her bedroom and those she encountered in TV cartoons and bedtime stories. BREAK There are several points to make in summary. First, not all young children will become scientists like Peter, Jane and Chris. However, Peter, Jane and Chris were once young children, and something(s)  sciencey  in their early life either resonated with them and their early youthful dispositions, or, at the very least, did nothing to deter them from eventually becoming scientists. And, for those of us interested in the development of older scientists from the young, this is an area of considerable interest. While Peter, Jane and Chris, along with many other professional scientists, may have come to science by following different routes after their early years, or through a variety of  triggers  or critical incidents later in life, there is something about science that has retained and fostered their interests and fed their inclinations. Second, science education is not science. It may well be  science_like  in some respects, but it is not science per se; it is a construction distilled and transformed through several layers of reworking, from scientific papers to science textbooks, texts to educational policies, curricular guidance to classroom practice, from teachers  science to childrens activities (GilbertZylberstajn1985). However, in our view, there is considerable onus on educators to make science education as  science_like  as possible, and here the emphasis is on what might be constituted by  early years science  as an educational entity. In this sense, we need to set not science topics but a  science tone  at an early stage. We see our three elements of open inquiry, transgressive play and  good  thinking as three aspects of this, but only three. The practice of inquiry is a way of thinking, of processing, of operating in the world. For us, it is essential to have an initial curiosity about something, and then a positive, encouraging, enabling, framework within to ask and foster ensuing questions. Third, neither personal interest nor individual inquiry can be taught simply as a  process skill  irrespective of and independent of the topic of study. We disagree with TifiNataleLombardi2006 who argue that a crucial ingredient of doing science _ the development of process skills _ should be taught first in content free investigations, where more attention can be paid to the spontaneous discovery, elicitation, generalization and sharing of principles captured by authentic problem_solving. From this starting point, children can move on to content based enquiry. However, in our view, having a  topical project core  to the inquiry is important, although there are certainly no  essential science  topics that need to be  covered  at this age. Nothing, but nothing, is  off the science table . As ThorntonBruton2015 say about the  Reggio Approach ,  In Reggio there is no predetermined curriculum. Childrens learning is developed through their involvement in long_ and short_term projects which develop out of first_hand experiences and their theories about the world  (p17). Questions are intended to provoke thought and inspire reflection. Strong, sometimes capricious, questioning skills fuel and steer the inventive process required to  cook up  something new. Without such skills, children become prisoners of conventional wisdom and the conventional wisdom of the day. Probing questioning explores the underlying principles, characteristics and possibilities of any given situation. For children to develop a knowledge and understanding of the world, they need adults who are knowledgeable and able to respond to their interests (Louis2008, p23). Fourth, science is serious play. Whether smelling the air, tasting a flowers nectar, feeling the texture of a smooth rock, rolling a toy car down an incline, building a tower or looking at a cicada shell, children have been learning since birth. Pretence and make_believe can be particularly valuable for problem_solving and developing creative thinking, exploration, negotiation and reflection (Robson2012). Needless to say, the role the adult adopts in this is important. As Schulz2012 says, there is a trade off of instruction versus exploration:  If I instruct you more, you will explore less, because you assume that if other things were true, I would have demonstrated them  (p385).
