The teachers and I scaffold the childrens engagement in scientific inquiry by manipulating the degree to which curriculum structures the inquiry versus asks the students themselves in varying social units to assume responsibility for the structuring. Well structured investigations taken on by the whole class under the teachers close guidance provide maximal support and thus can be strategic for the introduction of new ideas and problems. The class as a whole can later take on ill_structured investigations, with an emphasis on the metacognition involved in structuring the investigation. As the childrens expertise develops, the curriculum increases the childrens responsibility for the inquiry by decreasing the degree to which the investigations are structured and shifting the social unit responsible for the inquiry from the whole class to pairs. BREAK  Although children had little responsibility for shaping their investigations in these early studies of seed dispersal, they take on increasing responsibility over the course of their subsequent study of plant growth and development. In this context, children take up the epistemic and methodological issue of how one can know if something does make a difference. The curriculum explicitly develops the construct of variable in conceptualizing what might affect plant growth and development and how it BREAK the behavior of the same rats or guinea pigs _ enabling them to compare their data for consistency and collaboratively interpret their findings. The children gradually take on more responsibility for carrying out the  BREAK  Prototype activities prior to work on the pairs  investigations. After early investigations designed to support childrens exploration of the diversity of plants around them, what plants need to grow, and plant growth and development (including their life cycle), the class turned to the study of seed dispersal. As these investigations were relatively early in the curriculum, they were well structured, and the more challenging aspects were taken up by the class as a whole. These investigations capitalize on the phenomenology of seed dispersal to continue to develop the big ideas of structure function, biodiversity, survival value, and adaptation, as well as the methodology of the controlled experiment and new tools for data representation and analysis. The childrens study of seed dispersal is grounded in their planting of seeds and their development of their own seed collections. They turn to how different seed characteristics are well suited to disperse in different ways through discussion of a video about seed dispersal and directed drawings that scaffold close analysis of the structures of acorns and milkweed seeds. Then the class together develops, implements, and interprets a study of how well suited three very different seeds  acorn, sunflower seed, and milkweed seed _ are for dispersal for the wind. BREAK  Prototype activities prior to work on the pairs  investigations. The animal behavior curriculum focused on how animals behave and the effect of the environment on animal behavior. At first the whole class studied the same (larger) organisms, allowing for a more scaffolded introduction of big ideas, key methodological challenges, and tools. Eventually the class progressed to the study of behavior of organisms for which pairs of students could assume more responsibility and control. More specifically, the curriculum begins with the class exploration of rat behavior in conjunction with the challenging task of differentiating observation from inference. Children call out behaviors they observe for the teacher to record on the easelpad. They discuss the list, collaboratively trying to differentiate their observations from their inferences. Although some attributions appear straight forward to them, others pose challenges. Thus, for instance, there is disagreement about whether she is trying to get out is an observation or inference, with many children taking each position. Following the teachers explanation that an observation would be what do you see her doing that made you think she was trying to get out, a child jumps in,  because she had her head through the hole! The teacher continues to use this case as a prototype illustrating the distinction:  Head through the hole  would be the observation. The inference is that you think she was  trying to get out.  The behavior of the rat becomes more interesting and variable after the children take up the question What are some things that you think might change Thelmas behavior? and add things to the rats environment to test their ideas. The teacher identifies the students  own behavior as an additional stimulus that could change the rats behavior, a source of variability that they want to avoid. The addition of a second rat supports their exploration of social behavior.
