A group of 4_year_olds were eagerly waiting to participate in a science exploratory lesson. The lesson was centred on the fact that a birds survival is dependent on its environment and habitat.  The engage stage: This stage is designed to invoke childrens interest and curiosity in the topic of study. The teacher takes the opportunity to ask questions to elicit childrens prior knowledge and to determine if the children had any misconceptions about the topic. Teachers use effective strategies such as a demonstration to captivate childrens attention, or read them a book to motivate them to learn, Engagement: To get the children interested and curious about the topic of the lesson, the preservice teacher showed them a box and asked, Teacher What do you think is in the box?  Study_Child:  I think a bug is in there.  Study_Child:  I think a sheep is in there.  The teacher opened the box to reveal a bird (taxidermy) mounted in a case. The children immediately reacted to seeing the object and said,  I have seen that before.  Is that a real bird?  Bringing their attention to the bird, the teacher asked,  What colour is the bird?   How does the bird move?  Where does this bird live?  The children were engrossed in feeling the bird and petting it as if it was alive, but one child replied,  Birds live in nests that are in the trees.  Having elicited children  prior knowledge about birds, the teacher brought out a birds nest and asked them,  What is the nest made of?  Who built this nest?  Does the nest feel smooth or rough? Soft or hard?  Transitioning into the next stage, the teacher announced,  Today we are going to learn about birds and their habitats! We will eventually be able to create our own nests like birds do with materials from the playground!  Each stage of the 5E model brought elements to building a conceptual understanding of the science content. In the engagement stage, the preservice teacher invoked the childrens curiosity by showing them a box and asking them what they thought would be inside. The childrens response ranged from the possibly realistic,  I think a bug is in there  to the imaginary,  I think a sheep is in there.  When the teacher revealed the bird taxidermy mount and displayed it in front of the children, promptly one of them questioned the teacher,  Is that a real bird?  The question could have lead_to the lesson into a discussion about living and non_living things; however, the child recognized that the bird was once alive. The teacher encouraged them to make observations (like an ornithologist) of the birds colour and think about how it would move and where it would live. These observations are important for children, as they are in preparation of developing a system of classification for birds and other organisms, a topic often learned in a biology class in school. In this conversation, one of the children made a generalized statement, Birds live in nests that are in the trees.  From an ornithologists perspective, this is a misconception. Birds live in the environment and use their nests to lay eggs and hatch them. However, a childs prior knowledge of birds has formed through many occasions of watching bird behaviour. This statement could change in the event the child were to observe bird nests in different environments. Typically, the nests are out of the reach of young children, but by displaying a real nest, the children got an opportunity to feel the material, and perhaps infer what type of a bird would have built a nest of that size. Now that the stage for inquiry had been set, the children were transitioned into the exploration stage where they learned about bird habitats and eventually built their own nests. The explore stage: In this stage , children were provided with materials and hands_on activities, which enabled them to explore and learn through discovery. The purpose was to facilitate the learning of a concept , process or skill through interaction with the materials or the environment; children learn cooperatively along with their peers to advance skills and concepts. This stage has the hallmark of inquiry and gives children a chance to test out their hypotheses, make new predictions, collect data and create models. Exploration: The teacher and the children went on a nature walk around the  Learning Forest  area to look for birds and other items that birds use to survive (seeds, bird feeder, trees and worms). Teacher:  Now we are going to go on a Bird Hunt! We are first going to see if we can find any birds, their habitat, and anything you think they might eat!  Exploratory play Looking up into the trees, the teacher says,  Lets look for birds,  What are those birds doing?  How many birds do you see?  Children looking up into the trees share their thoughts,  I hear the birds, Do you?  Teacher cautions the children,  Listen Do you hear that?  Pointing to the trees and open space, the teacher asks,  Why do you think they are located here and not over there?  Study_Child:  Birds live in nests that are in trees!  Teacher:  What materials do birds put in their nests?  Study_Child:  I found some tree bark.  Study_Child:  I can use this for a nest!  Study_Child:  Here you can have one.  Motioning to other students,  Can you use this?   Follow me guys!  Moving over to the bird feeder, the teacher asked,  What do birds eat?  Do you think it is easy for birds to find their food?  The students examined what birds ate from the bird feeders nearby and felt what was inside the bird feeder. The  Learning Forest,  an area with young and mature trees within the premises of the preschool, gives children an opportunity to interact with nature and is used for the nature walks. During the exploration stage, the children looked for birds and suitable materials (real world) to build their nests in this environment. The teachers  objective of this exploratory mission was to have the children discover where birds might live and what they might eat, while providing guidance to their exploration. Gibson1979 developed the concept  affordances  to describe the awareness of the environment and the significance of its functionality. This landscape affords a canopy of trees and open grounds which was contrasted by the teacher who pointed to the trees and open space and asked,  Why do you think they are located here and not over there?  while referring to the location of possible bird nests. Children intuitively use their environment and its topography like slopes and rocks and logs of trees to develop motor skills and play even though they might be physically challenging (Fjørtoft2001). During their nature walk, a child found pieces of tree bark and was excited that it would be suitable for his nest. He shared his find with his peers and took a leadership role when he motioned them to follow him to the bird feeders. The tactile experience the children acquired through feeling the seeds also enabled them to observe that not all the seeds were the same.  The explanation stage: In this stage, children congregated as a group, shared ideas, thoughts and experiences that they have been exposed to during the exploration stage. The teacher can validate the childrens naive theories and correct misconceptions if present. They can also extend the explanations to connect the experiences the children have had in the engage, and exploration stage. The teachers  role is to explain phenomenon to the children and teach new vocabulary and scientific terminology. Explanation: After the students observed the environment, the teachers explained to them the concept of a habitat. Study_Child:  What do baby birds eat?  Study_Child:  Baby birds live in nests too!  Teacher:  Birds live in homes in the trees,  They eat seeds and berries.  Baby birds eat food from the mother.  The teacher brought out a nest and explained to the children that they would be building their own birds  nests with the materials found around them. Each child was given a plastic bag and the safety rules were reviewed before they collected materials for their own nest. The guiding questions the teachers asked were  What kinds of materials are you going to grab for your nest?  Study_Child:  Lets use sticks in our nest!  Teacher:  What did you find?  Study_Child:  I found lots of rocks!  Teacher:  How can we use that for a nest?  Why did you grab the rock for the nest?  Do you think that a bird could use a rock for a nest?  Study_Child:  I am going to use this and put it here!  Can I use my rocks?  Conceptually, the children had developed an understanding of a habitat and the food it provided for a bird; however, they were still curious about what a chick might eat. The explanation the teacher gave provided an insight to the dependence of chicks on an adult bird for food. After the children had established the location of the nests, they were instructed to build one of their own from materials they found in the environment. This activity challenged the children from the realm of reality (a real nest) to a phase of imagination, in which the structure of the nest and the suitability of materials were cognitively significant in the development of play. Children gave new meaning to ordinary materials through play by choosing a variety of materials such as bark, sticks and rock to build a nest. While the choice of sticks and bark might be plausible, the rock was probably not a realistic item a bird would use. However, in an imaginary situation, the rock now had new meaning.  The elaboration stage: This stage in the model allowed children to be challenged, as they were encouraged to apply their knowledge and skills to new situations, which resulted in the expansion of their understanding. On some occasions, children may still have misconceptions that are persistent, and the teacher can mitigate those misconceptions by further clarification of concepts. Elaboration: After the children explored and collected their materials for their nests, they were addressed as a group on how to create their nests in boxes independently. Each child received a paper cut_out of birds and some plastic eggs to put in their nest if they choose. In case the children did not find enough materials of their own, other material like sticks and leaves were provided. This scenario created a situation in which the children engaged in free play. They gathered materials and built their own nests. Free play Teacher:  Let us try and make our own nests and lets try and use all of the things we found on our walk.  Study_Child:  Lets use our sticks!  Look what we found!  Look over here!  I can help you.  The children engage in colouring their bird cut_outs, as they have a conversation with each other. Study_Child:  My bird is pink.  Teacher:  Now we can add a bird to live in your nest!  Study_Child:  Why do I have eggs?  Study_Child:  Now there is a baby bird!  Study_Child: Looking inside the plastic egg says,  Auh no baby bird in the egg.  Teacher: Now that we have observed birds and their habitat, you can look for birds in your own backyards at home. You can observe where they live and how they survive! The 5E instructional model was modified for early childhood programmes to accommodate free play. In the elaborate stage of the lesson, the children were given instructions to design a nest of their choice and use a wide variety of materials to accommodate a bird (paper cut_out) and her eggs (plastic eggs). From the conversation, we gather that the children coloured the birds and at least one of them was coloured pink. Obviously, the child is not thinking about colour in terms of camouflage rather making a choice of a favourite colour. The introduction of plastic eggs related to the fact that birds build nests to lay eggs and hatch their chicks. This concept was understood through the conversation in pretend play. While one child, who was still thinking about designing the nest asked,  Why do I have eggs?  the other was imagining that there was a chick inside and exclaimed,  Now there is a baby bird!  This pretence enhanced their curiosity and the first child promptly opened the plastic (imaginary) eggs and reciprocated in pretence,  Auh no baby bird in the egg.   The evaluation stage: During the evaluation stage, childrens understanding of concepts and their ability expressed through a variety of skills were assessed formally and informally. Teachers used authentic assessments, and even simple questions in each stage to assess the progress the children were making towards the learning outcomes. Evaluation: The teacher asked each child to share information about their bird habitat with the group. The teacher asked them questions: Teacher:  What kinds of materials did you use to create your bird habitat?  Why did you choose those materials?  Do you have any materials similar to your classmates?  and  What kind of birds lives in your nest?  Study_Child:  I need to put my bird in its nest now.  Study_Child:  Oh! I want to fill my egg with bird seed!  Study_Child:  My bird is sleeping in my nest.  Study_Child:  My bird is hungry, here is its food.  Study_Child:  Hey friends! Lets fill our eggs with bird seed!  I am all finished!  The teachers also created a rubric in which they noted whether the children made at least three observations about the characteristics of birds and their habitats around them. They also examined the individual nests that the children had created. They evaluated whether the children constructed a nest for their bird and were able to explain three more characteristics of their nest and the materials used. The teachers intended to facilitate a discussion on the types of material the children had chosen for their nests and to rationalize why they had made that choice. They also wanted to have the children compare and realize that a diversity of materials was used. However, this was not what the children wanted to discuss; they were still in pretend mode imagining that their bird (paper cut_out) was alive and that it was hungry and needed to be fed with birdseed. According to Fleer2011, movement between reality and imagination occurs when children play. They move in and out of the play and they move in and out of the real world. A child who creates an imaginary situation, such as pretending to be a jockey riding a horse in play, is the same child who acts as a scientist mapping their outdoor area. This is conceptually congruent. The preschool child knows that he or she is not a real scientist, but in the process of documenting their finds, they are acting scientifically and learning about the rules associated with how a scientist might work. (p234) The role of the 5E instructional model in facilitating conceptual play has been demonstrated through the analysis of the stages in the lesson plan. The following section presents a discussion on the pedagogical aspects of developing science concepts from a cultural_historical perspective. BREAK Modelling helps children rise to the concrete; this process comprises of the pedagogical principle initially exploring a holistic system, and then mentally ascending to this system to ascertain its specific nature (Fleer2011).
