1) Scientific Inquiry Processes a) Can use science concepts to generate scientific questions and predictions. b) Understand how simple tools such as measuring and recording devices and inscriptional tools can assist in investigations. c) Can observe and record data relevant to their investigations. d) Can extend or revise their knowledge through their investigations. e) Can communicate about their investigations and knowledge. guidance might allow additional cognitive resources to develop in_situ as the children engaged in inquiry.  BREAK Some forms of guidance, such as the choice of topic, the observational environment, the choice of reading resources, and the use of certain tools and artifacts for investigation, were  hard_wired  into the instructional design. These aspects of inquiry were predesigned by the team of researchers and collaborating classroom teachers before the onset of instruction. Other forms of support and guidance were provided contextually by the classroom teachers as called for in specific situations. Examples of such contextual support included teacher modeling of aspects of inquiry as needed, teacher scaffolding of childrens model construction and of their discourse about these models (e.g., through hints, questions, and clarifications), and teacher scaffolding of childrens understanding of scientific inquiry. We provide examples of these forms of support and guidance when describing the SLP implementation and discussing the results.  BREAK INQ teachers used a variety of strategies such as asking questions, providing hints and reminders to children throughout the process of investigation, and modeling skills for children as needed, to scaffold their learning. The teachers facilitated childrens communication about their investigations through frequent smallgroup and whole class discussion and by supporting the use of inscriptional tools such as idea boards, posters, and science notebooks to preserve public, sharable records of ideas developed in each inquiry cycle.
