We chose physics as the focal domain for FSL because physics investigations invite children to act directly on objects and materials and immediately observe the results of their actions. This means that children can engage in iterative cycles of investigation, observation, and reflection in relatively short spans of time. In addition, opportunities for childrens physics inquiry are readily available in most early childhood settings, as classrooms and curricula already incorporate exploratory play with objects and materials such as water, blocks, ramps, toy cars, and balls. In order to impact childrens inquiry, FSL aims to build teachers  understanding of the big ideas in physics related to matter (the properties of solids, liquids, and gases) and the forces that underlie its behavior (applied forces, gravity, water pressure, air pressure, buoyancy, friction, and momentum). Within the broad domain of physics, FSL specifically targets teachers  PCK in science related to two familiar preschool topics: water (subtopics: properties of water, water flow, and sinking and floating) and balls and ramps (subtopics: properties of balls and the motion_physics of balls on inclines). As an example, PCK related to the subtopic of sinking and floating includes the following: Knowing the relevant science concepts: An object sinks or floats in water depending on its density relative to water, density is a function of weight and volume, and changing the weight and or total volume of an object (e.g., by adding pennies or changing the objects shape) may change its density and hence whether it sinks or floats in water. Knowing what children are capable of learning in relation to the relevant concepts and how they learn it: As a relational concept, density is abstract for young children (and even some adults!); however, FSL supports childrens understanding of the precursor concepts of weight, size/volume, and type of material (see SmithWiserAndersonKrajcik2006) as well as other accessible concepts. By providing young children with opportunities to explore directly observable properties of objects through sinking and floating activities, FSL builds a foundation for a more explicit understanding of density later on in school. In addition,FSL provides teachers with strategies designed to challenge childrens typical misconceptions related to sinking and floating, including the ideas that heavy/big things sink and light/small things float and vice versa. Knowing strategies that will promote childrens content learning and how and when to apply them: Strategies include helping children notice and observe differences in the size, weight, and shape of different objects; providing opportunities for children to experience differences in density by, for example, handling non_heavy and heavy objects of the same size; and facilitating explorations that enable children to effect change, such as making floating objects sink and making sinking objects float. BREAK Assignments distributed at each course session require teachers to put the FSL approach into action in their own classrooms. Each assignment provides guidance on structuring an open or focused exploration of water (Assignments 1_3) or balls and ramps (Assignment 4) using the E_E_R cycle and integrating Talk Tips into science talks at each phase. Assignments include guidance on collecting assessment data and space for recording observations of children’s explorations. Assignments 1_3 also include references to readings in the curriculum guide specific to each of the subtopics in the water study: water, water flow, and sinking and floating.
