kinds of field experiences:  in reading language arts and  in mathematics BREAK  Three different activities were provided for students: boatride,  nickeldrop, and  pennyspill BREAK surfacetension of water BREAK folds and faults BREAK playdoh BREAK students investigated rocks BREAK the four layers of the Earths crust and cross_cut PLAYDOH samples BREAK Hannah was a 23-year-old, African_American female. She had the highest gain score on the Earth science content test (+46). Hannah taught 21 1stgrade African_American students (13 girls and 8 boys) in an urban elementary school. Her Earth science lesson, FoldsFaults1996 came from the Internet. Having previously taught this lesson to students in the community-based setting, the objective of the lesson was for students to learn about the Earths crust and how the layers moved to create folds and faults. Hannah began by developing a KWL chart (what students know, what they want to know, and what they learned). Then she brainstormed with students about different types of layers to help them understand how rocks were formed. Next, she introduced the students to the vocabulary they needed to know and told them they would pretend to be scientists. She distributed PLAYDOH, which was provided by Earth_Links staff. The students used the PLAYDOH to simulate the layers of the Earths crust. First, students flattened four different colors of PLAYDOH and stacked them vertically to represent layered rock. Then, students sliced cross_sections of the compressed rock to observe the layers BREAK Cora was a 40-year-old White female. She had the largest decline on the Earth Science content test (-9). However, her rating on the STIR (M = 2.7) indicated moderate use of inquiry_based practices. She student taught in a 2ndgrade class with 21 students (11 boys and 10 girls; one Asian, 19 White, and one other) in a suburban school district. The science lesson that she presented came from the IES2001 curriculum. The objective of the lesson was for students to learn that water had surface tension. Three different activities were provided for students: boat ride, nickel drop, and penny spill. For the boat ride, a piece of paper was placed in a tub of water. Then, a drop of liquid soap was released near the piece of paper, causing the paper to move forward across the water. In the second activity, students used an eyedropper to put water onto a nickel while keeping count to determine how many drops it took before the water ran off. In the third activity, students dropped pennies into a bowl of water until the water spilled over. They also kept a record of the number of pennies needed for the spill to occur. Thus, mathematics in the form of data collection and analysis (i.e., tallying) was integrated with this science lesson. Three teaching episodes are presented next which describe a whole-group discussion, a small-group instruction, and another whole-group discussion during this lesson.
