We used the conceptual hook  lift, squeeze, stretch, and twist  in this study to describe how one can store gravitational potential energy1 (lift) or elastic potential energy (squeeze, stretch, and twist) in an object. Technical terms, such as potential energy or kinetic energy, were not used in the lessons since our goal was to give the students a vocabulary that would be meaningful to them, not an abstract scientific vocabulary. To begin students  development of their ideas of energy, we selected just a few specific aspects of energy that we felt were within reach of kindergarten students and which could be applicable to the students  life for example, where the students themselves get their energy and how they use it, and where everyday objects (e.g., a flashlight, a mechanical toy) get their energy and how they use it. Several forms of energy were discussed in the lessons (e.g., gravitational potential energy, energy in food and gasoline, and electricity), but elastic potential energy was the primary focus of the lessons. We felt that this form of energy would be the most concrete for students. For example, it is used in many toys so it connects to the students  life, it can be demonstrated with many objects at hand (e.g., rubber band, paperclip), and it is possible to see what is happening to the object (e.g., see the spring_physics compressed or the rubber band stretched BREAK Five half_hour_long lessons addressing the physics of energy were developed and taught by the scientist to students in four kindergarten classes. This was the sixth year that the scientist had taught lessons at this school, and most of the lessons used in this study had been taught and continually improved over several years. The lessons included kinesthetic activities (e.g., pretending to be compressed spring_physics), hands_on activities (e.g., examining a toy to see the spring_physics inside it, making  paperclip hoppers ), class discussion, demonstrations, and songs about energy. The lessons were structured around the 5E model: Engage, Explore, Explain, Extend, and Evaluate (Bybee1997). In the first lesson, the students explore energy by examining a flashlight and several toys (e.g., wind_up, pull_back, and pop_up toys) to figure out where they get their energy and what they use their energy to do. The key idea in this lesson, emphasized in the class discussion and explanation, was to distinguish between where something gets its energy and how it uses its energy (e.g., food and running for a person). This concept was then extended by discussing where a car, a plant, people, and a television get their energy. The lesson ended with a song about where things get their energy—a song that was used to start most of the rest of the lessons. In the second lesson, additional toys and objects (e.g., pop_up toys, rubber bands, an airplane with a rubber_band_driven propeller, etc.) were used to show how one can store elastic potential energy in a flexible object by compressing, stretching, or twisting it. The key phrase,  squeeze, stretch, and twist,  was introduced and emphasized throughout the lesson, with corresponding hand_motions. The third lesson looked at how the concepts of  squeeze, stretch, and twist  explained how many toys work. For example, several toys were disassembled and shown to have spring_physics or rubber bands inside that were squeezed, stretched, or twisted to give the toy energy. The fourth lesson introduced another way to give energy to an object lifting it (i.e., gravitational potential energy). To aid in making the connection between both elastic and gravitational potential energy more concrete, one activity consisted of showing how the energy stored in a pop_up toy or a lifted object could be used to light a small light bulb. In addition, a second energy song about the concepts  lift,   squeeze,   stretch,  and  twist  was introduced to reinforce this key idea from the lessons. In the final lesson, the students examined more objects (e.g., slap bracelets, clip board, clothespin) that illustrate elastic potential energy, and they made paperclip hoppers consisting of a bent paperclip with a paper covering for safety, which they were allowed to decorate. (For more details of the lessons, see Van Hook and HuziakClark2007a.)
