Context: the Snails Project The teachers design a science project every year. Like the previous ones, the snails project The teachers design a science project every year. Like the previous ones, the snails project implemented during the 2013_2014 school year has a flexible design, modified depending on childrens questions and interests. It is framed in design principles parallel to Metz2011 childrens questions and interests. It is framed in design principles parallel to Metz2011 principles for science in early primary, reworded to fit the context of the study.  Engagement in practices triggered by curiosity and question based: curiosity as the motor that interests children in science. Childrens questions are driving the project. Deep prolonged immersion in a problem: the snails project spans 5 months, from mid_January to mid_June. Rich domain knowledge entwined with building knowledge practices: biology issues explored during the project included the fact that snails are hermaphrodite, their body plan, their mouthparts (radula), and the process by which a broken shell is healed. BREAK The teachers approach in their own words is reproduced in Table S1. It involves the following: (1) Motivating, eliciting childrens interest: introducing the phenomenon or living being to the class. In this project, bringing a box with garden snails (the big European snail Helix aspersa, reaching a length of 28_35mm); (2) Collecting childrens ideas and producing questions: producing responses to three questions, used for driving the project: (a) What do we know about snails? (b) What do we want to know about snails? (c) What did we learn? And (3) Engaging children in scientific practices guided by teachers: the starting point are the childrens own questions. The children are familiar with snails. The school is located in a small city with no clear limits with the countryside and many houses have gardens where snails are abundant (and a pest). They do know for instance that snails eat greens such as cabbage or collard leaves or that they can withdraw into their shells. Everyday routine included counting up snails and checking what they had eaten. Each day, a team of two children was in charge of cleaning up the terrarium and wetting the snails, so they would come out of their shells. Table 1 summarizes the projects timeline. The sustained participation created opportunities for a range of experiments, observations and childrens productions. Attendance was not always constant, ranging from 25 to 19; they took their productions home and sometimes did not return them, accounting for the differences in numbers of drawings in Table1. Two experiments may illustrate the childrens engagement with the project: in experiment 3, to test hearing, they placed four snails on a lid, and stayed in silence for a few_minute. Then they made noises by (1) shouting; (2) banging two sticks; and (3) playing a tambourine. The snails behavior in the conditions of silence and noise were compared. Experiment 5, snails strength, tested if snails would spontaneously move toward a piece of lettuce pulling a potato either through a plastic strainer or through a cardboard cart attached to the snails she
