We emphasize the dialectical relationship between processes at individual and collective levels as central to interacting, learning, and co-constructing science, and we detail these perspectives further throughout the analytic discussion of data in later sections.  BREAK For us, science is a human activity, one which comes into existence as it is done within interaction, whereby interactants are continually shaping, and are being shaped by, the activity and the constructed context through multiple situated interactions. Thus, science emerges from the  doing, which includes physical processes and experiences as well as dialoaic interactions Ash2004. We share an understanding that as science is done it is talked into being Gallas1995; Lemke1990. The dialectical approach allows us to move beyond traditional static and linear models to work toward a depiction of the complexity of human interaction and experience that depicts social phenomena as multiple systematically interacting elements  EngestromMiettinen,1999,p.9. Through these frameworks, science learning, thinking, and knowing are addressed within our study at an early moment of becoming a participant in  doing science.  BREAK When science becomes relevant within an interaction, participants will organize their general talk with regard to the more specific science object at hand. As such, they refer to and expand discourse practices, which pertain to the science specific perspective emergent from the interaction  just go on pouring, one might not be enough here and the second one has the same volume . The organization of this science related discourse in interaction draws from, feeds into, and constitutes over time the larger Discourse as Science. More specifically, the science related discourse in interaction systematically emerges from a science goal–orientated interaction. We argue that it is important to recognize that young childrens science-related talk is not just a low quality version of standardized ore stablished ways of science. Quite on the contrary, these discourse formats often precede and are at the origin of the standardized canonical discourse formats Schlieben-Lange1987, which function as norm orientation in the general landscape of science as practice and theory. BREAK We conceptualize science as an emergent process: one that is generated by participants in the doing. We understand  doing science  within institutional settings  as learning to deal with locally organized and sequentially structured discourse activities, and hence rooted in the learners participation in organizing talk in interaction, such as configuring participation structures or sequencing activities  Pekarek-DoehlerZiegler2007p85. As discourse emerges from what the participants are doing, science is continuously emergent through interaction and discursive formats. Consequently, and over time, practices more strongly refer to established practices and are more easily acknowledged as being  science.  This, however, does not imply that lesser normative practices  do science  to a more limited degree. Rather, informal science dialogue can become the basis for broader scientific literacy Ash2004.  BREAK __  Doing science  emerges from a goal-oriented activity that frames the childrens actions. This mutual interaction creates a discourse of science. 2. Children make relevant their everyday ways of participating within their science related interaction practices. They use and modify other discourse formats from other goal-oriented activities that are familiar to them. 3. Children display an awareness of  doing science,  as they collaboratively orient to a specific format for completing the activity. They enact discursive structures that reveal science within unfolding dialogue.
