In particular, this research is framed by understandings of guided inquiry based instruction Trundle-etal2010 and the related importance of science pedagogical practices building upon contemporary understandings of young childrens intuitive scientific thinking and exploration Gopnik2012. The work between PTs and kindergartners during this project is based upon a fundamental understanding of the role of the early childhood teacher as guide, facilitator, and provocateur Wien2014 with robust science content and pedagogical knowledge. Inquiry-based learning incorporates central tenets of reform-based teaching such as active learning and the integration of new knowledge with existing, prior knowledge Bransford-etal2000. Inquiry experiences are most often centered on a specific science topic broken down into smaller investigations for focused exploration Krajcik-etal2003. In a 2014 position statement the National Science Teachers Association NSTA stressed the need for reflective, inquiry-based science experiences at the early childhood level in order to support and strengthen student learning. The National Research Council recommends the inclusion of inquiry science experiences at the early childhood levels NRC20072012. Recommended early science learning experiences that drive a guided, inquiry based include: identifying and asking questions that can be answered through investigation, designing and conducting investigations, using appropriate tools and equipment, learning to develop logical conclusions, and communicate understandings to peers and others NSTA2004. A crucial component of guided inquiry in science is the ability of young children to share and express ideas. Unlike older children who have the ability to express and share ideas through the processes of reading and writing, early childhood students are beginning to build early literacy skills. Thus, preschool and early grades teachers are faced with the challenge of finding alternative ways to encourage their students to explore the ideas of others and to express their own thinking. Representation of student thinking is an important element of inquiry-based experiences as different forms of representation work to encourage young children to make their thinking visible to themselves and others. In early childhood science, student representation can be expressed though various forms of visual arts media including student drawings and digital photography
