PRACTICE OF INQUIRY As we think of pedagogies for a digital age, we have an opportunity to reconsider the basic models of teaching and learning. One starting point is the interests of the learner, as categorized by JohnDewey:  the interest in conversation, communication; in inquiry, or finding out things; in making things, or construction; and in artistic expression.  He called these  the natural resources, the uninvested capital, upon which depends the active growth of the child  Dewey1956pp4748. Dewey stated similar ideas in a process form in his stages of reflective action Dewey1910 and in his definition of inquiry. The latter uses the idea of situation to provide a descriptive account of how we survive in the world:  Inquiry is the controlled or directed transformation of an indeterminate situation into one that is so determinate in its constituent distinctions and relations as to convert the elements of the original situation into a unified whole  Dewey1991p108. Inspired by these sources and the fundamental idea that learning begins with the curiosity of the learner, a spiral path of inquiry was envisioned: asking questions, investigating solutions, creating, discussing the discoveries and experiences, and reflecting on newfound knowledge, followed by asking new questions BruceBishop2002. Each step in this process naturally leads to the next: inspiring new questions, investigations, and opportunities for authentic  teachable  moments. Each question leads to an exploration, which in turn leads to more questions to investigate BruceDavidson1996  Thus, reflection on solving a problem may lead to reformulating the problem or posing a new question. Similarly, action in the world is closely tied to dialogue with others. The inquiry cycle presents aspects of inquiry that need support in a successful learning environment. As such, it serves as a boundary object StarGriesmer1989, allowing us to relate theory with ordinary practices or to look across modes and contexts of learning. The cycle can thus be used to inform and guide educational experiences for learners. It is important to note that it is merely suggestive, neither the sole, complete, nor rigid characterization of inquirybased learning. In actuality, inquiry rarely proceeds in a simple, linear fashion. The five dimensions in the process ask, investigate, create, discuss, reflect overlap, and not every category or step is present in any given inquiry. Each step can be embedded in any of the others, and so on. In fact, the very nature of inquiry is that these steps are mutually reinforcing and interrelated. Despite these complexities, the cycle highlights aspects of an otherwise opaque process. The  ask  dimension reminds us that inquiry develops from a question or problem arising out of experience. Meaningful questions are inspired by genuine curiosity about realworld experiences and challenges. The indeterminate situation Dewey refers to is part of that experience, including an individuals participation in a community. It is not something that can be delivered from  outside  this participation. An example of this comes from an early study of learning with computers. Researchers found that students became most engaged when there was a bug in the computer learning software. They had a genuine interest in exploring the behavior of the bug, which led to deep inquiry about programming. The researchers noted the  enormous pedagogical difference between answering someone elses question and formulating your own  OldsSchwartzWillie1980p40. But it is important to caution that inquiry does not always start with a well articulated question. In fact, questions themselves arise from reflection and action in the world, including dialogue with others. ElspethHuxley1959 stated this well: The best way to find things out. .. is not to ask questions at all. If you fire off a question, it is like firing of a gun bang it goes, and everything takes flight and runs for shelter. But if you sit quite still and pretend not to be looking, all the little facts will come and peck round your feet, situations will venture forth from thickets, and intentions will creep out and sun themselves on a stone; and if you are very patient you will see and understand a great deal more than a man with a gun does. p272 The  investigate  dimension relates to the varieties of experience possible and the many ways in which we become part of an indeterminate situation. It suggests that opportunities for learning require diverse, authentic, and challenging materials and problems. Because experience includes interactions with others, there is also a moral dimension to inquiry. Similarly, physical, emotional, aesthetic, and practical dimensions are inherent in inquiry, and are not merely enhancements or addons. Through investigation, we turn curiosity into action. Learners gather information, study, craft an experiment, observe, or interview. The learner may recast the question, refine a line of query, or plunge down a new path that the original question did not, or could not, anticipate. The information gathering stage becomes a selfmotivated process that is owned by the engaged learner. The  create  dimension picks up the  controlled or directed transformation  part of Deweys definition of inquiry. This term reminds us that inquiry means active, engaged, handson learning. Inquiry thus implies active creation of meaning, which includes new forms of collaborating and new roles for collaborators. As information begins to coalesce, the learner makes connections. The ability at this stage to synthesize meaning is the creative spark that forms new knowledge. The learner now undertakes the creative task of shaping significant new thoughts, ideas, and theories, extending his/her prior experience. The  discuss  dimension highlights an implicit part of Deweys definition. Although inquiry has a personal aspect, it is also part of our participation in social arrangements and community. The discuss aspect in the Inquiry Cycle involves listening to others and articulating our own understandings. Through discussion or dialogue, construction of knowledge becomes a social enterprise. Learners share their ideas and ask others about their own experiences. Shared knowledge is a community building process, and the meaning of their investigation begins to take on greater relevance in the context of the learners society. Learners compare notes, share experiences, and discuss conclusions, through multiple media, including now online social networks. The  reflect  dimension tells us that only the inquirer can recognize the indeterminate situation and further, say whether it has been transformed into a unified whole. Reflection later articulated in the work of Sch¨on1987, and others means expressing experience, and thereby being able to move from new concepts into action. Reflection may also mean recognizing further indeterminacies, leading to continuing inquiry. Reflection is taking the time to look back at initial questions, the research path, and the conclusions made. The learner steps back, takes inventory, makes observations and new decisions. Has a solution been found? Do new questions come into light? What might those questions be? And so it begins again thus the circle of inquiry.  BREAK .There is also a deep structural dimension to the pedagogy whereby the pupils learned about the process and practice of inquiry. In designing the class activities, the teacher created controlled conditions for inquiry. Left unsupported, pupils may not have had the ability to draw upon, manage, or direct all of their natural impulses toward the project goals Often the teacher directed and guided classroom activities: at times seeking to arouse curiosity, at other times specifying individual roles within group work, and still at other times encouraging discussion and reflection. While the pupils were learning the practice of inquiry, the functions of the teacher involved directing, modeling, and often scaffolding the inquiry process.  BREAK For primary education, where learners have a world of opportunities ahead, the signature pedagogy cannot be as sharply defined. Instead, it needs to be a set of practices and conceptions that support more open ended inquiry. The authors have argued here for inquiry itself as the signature pedagogy for general education, and the Inquiry Cycle as a way to manage it in the classroom.  BREAK The most productive way to support digital literacy is unlikely to come from empirical results alone, or from theoretical analysis removed from practice. Instead, as in the best sense of inquiry, it needs to grow out of reflective action an experimental way of knowing that attends to what students and teachers actually do, but seeks to understand that in terms of deeper conceptions of learning. Analysis of a wide range of uses of computers in primary education shows the value of a learner centered pedagogy. Such a pedagogy is oriented to developing powerful environments in which learners can use new media for ends that make sense in their lives. The authors have also reported in detail on actual primary classrooms that employ such a pedagogy. This work suggests both the theoretical soundness and the practical viability of the Inquiry Cycle as a signature pedagogy for primary education enriched through digital media.  BREAK  The definition suggests ways in which digital media enhance the practice of inquiry. Digital media can enable the Inquiry Cycle by offering new entry points such as taking pictures for investigating or facilitating discussion through online connection. Digital media can also sustain inquiry through expansion as when new questions arise from  facilitated by reviewing creative outputs such as a photo story or Web site.
