inquiry-based instruction understood as hands-on activities within small groups and with sense-making discussions is expected to enhance both scientific content knowledge and scientific inquiry NRC1996. On the other hand, current science education theories promote the importance of structuring and scaffolding as a standard of science instruction Kirschner-etal2006. Matching the two, inquirybased instruction along with scaffolding, seems to be most suitable for young children Furtak-etal2012; Hardy-etal2006; TrundleSackes2012. While there is some research with regard to instructional conditions and accompanying early childhood teaching Appleton2008, the age at which an early science learning progression may be successfully implemented is often not specified.  BREAK Inquirybased instruction has to take into account that on the one hand, open inquiry environments may be unproductive, especially for young learners with low self-regulation capacities and persistent misconceptions but on the other hand, traditional forms of instruction often fail in achieving students long-term conceptual restructuring with regard to basic science concepts DuitTreagust2003; Holliday2006  BREAK In the following, we propose two main foci for designing a curriculum for early science learning, intended to support conceptual restructuring by means of scaffolding student learning in an inquiry-based setting: a using structured task features to support reasoning with the targeted concepts and b embedding scientific reasoning in a three-step process of inquiry that allows the students to increasingly take responsibility for their own learning. Scaffolds in terms of task features. Instructionally sensitive tasks and materials need to incorporate aspects of a conceptual progression in order to ensure childrens effective engagement with the learning content. How could this be done? Young childrens explanations of objects floating or sinking usually involve misconceptions such as a focus on salient features  shape, weight, or size. Accordingly, tasks targeting conceptual restructuring need to both challenge childrens intuitive theories and have them take into account new properties, in this case material kind, for their predictions of objects floating or sinking. This can be supported by establishing structural similarities across same-material objects both verbally and non-verbally. Structural similarities function as an invitation for comparison which has been shown to be an important process with regard to conceptual development NamyGentner2002. Thus, presenting structural similarities may stimulate children to compare objects with each other, to ask investigative questions about objects behavior in water, to form educated expectations. With further scaffolding, children may also be led, to conduct simple investigations and to observe results, to justify an argument, and to discuss alternative ideas Bybee2006; Moller-etal2012. As WiserSmith2008 pointed out: Using  plastic  as an adjective guides generalization across different kinds of plastic objects and thus encourages linking plastic to shininess, lightness, and flexibility p209. Also grammatical construction such as This is made of plastic or This is plastic as opposed to This is a cup draws childrens attention to the material dimension. Furthermore, hands-on experiences help children to detect similarities in appearance and behavior across objects of the same material. Thus, for example, in a task concerning floating and sinking, children could consider solid objects which differ in shape, weight, or size but which consist of the same material when predicting their floating or sinking in water. Scaffolds in terms of a problem based context. Putting the scientific tasks in a problembased context of scientific inquiry may be a further scaffold for conceptual development Dewey,1910 Hmelo-Silver,2006.Authentic and complex problem settings in personally meaningful contexts Pintrich, Marx,Boyle1993 allow for multi perspectives approaches and multiple solution paths or solutions MayerWittrock2006, thus giving opportunities for scientific inquiry and conceptual restructuring LinnEylon2006. A meaningful, contextualized, and complex problem for young children might be to find out which objects will float and whether, and if so, how floating objects can be made to sink. According to Holliday2006, teachers should avoid what often can be observed: neither is it productive to guide a child step-by-step through tasks which learners are initially unable to place into a broader context nor is it fruitful to leave the children unsupported in their inquiry process Appleton2008. Organizing the learning process as a three-step structure AtkinsKarplus1962; SchiefelePekrun1996 should ensure that the intended problem solving processes and patterns are indeed stimulated and can be carried out even by young children as self-reliant learners Hiemstra2000. The three-step structure summarizes the Biological Sciences Curriculum Study BSCS 5E instructional model Engagement, Exploration, Explanation, Elaboration, and Evaluation, Bybeeetal2006 and considers the learning conditions of young children. In the preparation phase, teachers arouse childrens engagement and motivation by introducing material that is appropriate in a domain and for a specific age groupConcerning young children, tasks and task introduction should always take into account their domain-specific knowledge see above as well as their domain general learning capabilities such as their natural curiosity concerning science ConezioFrench2002 and their limited executive functions Garon, Bryson,Smith2008. In the operation phase, teachers encourage the children to explore by generating questions and hypotheses and trying out different solution paths and explanations. During childrens work, teachers adaptively support the learning processes by explaining and elaborating through modeling solution strategies and providing fading aids for carrying out solution plans Lepper-etal1997. In the reflection phase, teachers support the children to explain and to examine each others solution paths and detecting alternative ways of thinking Kuhn2009. Teachers also evaluate learning outcomes and frame mistakes as opportunities for learning as well as plan next learning opportunities KloosVanOrden2005.
