In policy there has been a move toward situating scientific practices at the center of teaching and learning. This trend is consistent with a  BREAK Recent understandings of science view it as a set of scientific practices Osborne2014. Osborne argues that science education needs to include explaining why we know what we know, for doing so will contribute to a commitment to evidence as the epistemic basis of beliefs. Policy reforms in the United States are aligned with this approach, adopting a focus on scientific practices alongside crosscutting concepts and core ideas as exemplified by the New Generation Science Standards NGSS Achieve2013; NRC2012. The examination of the use of evidence is framed in this notion of scientific practices, as a part of practice 7 Engaging in argument from evidence BREAK .Most of the work about the use of evidence in primary and secondary classrooms is framed in the construction of explanations. Duschl2008 Evidence-Explanation E-E continuum involves three critical transformations or students judgments: 1 selecting or generating data to become evidence; 2 using evidence to ascertain patterns of evidence and models; and 3 employing the models and patterns to propos explanations. As Duschl points out,each of the se transitions involves making epistemic judgments about  what counts  as data, evidence or explanations. however, our work with kindergarteners focuses on the first stages: articulating claims, selecting or generating data to become evidence, identifying patterns, and using evidence to support claims.  BREAK we are focusing first on this  what counts  as evidence dimension, in other words, data are considered evidence if their discursive role in childrens talk is to evaluate a claim; and second, on the appropriateness of data to support the claim.  BREAK 1 selecting data appropriate for being transformed into evidence related to a claim; and 2 identifying potential appropriate evidence that could confirm or disconfirm a claim. Both processes would be scaffolded, as is the case in our study.
