Inquiry is vital to science teaching. One of the most influential instructional models in science education is the 5E instructional model Bybee-etal2006. Developed by the Biological Sciences Curriculum Study, the 5E model gets its phases and sequence of instruction from the Learning Cycle model AtkinsKarplus1962 which originally constituted of the exploration, explanation concept formation and extension expansion phases. This 3E learning cycle is based on Piagets mental functioning model Marek2008. The 5E instructional model is established on the constructivist approach to learning which operates under the assumption that learners bring with them ideas of the world around them and they construct knowledge by testing new ideas against the existing ideas that they know to be real. When new ideas are familiar, they are easily assimilated and learners use the process of accommodation to fit unfamiliar ideas of how the world operates Colburn2003. The research-based 5E model also incorporates the notion that learning takes place in a social setting and that cooperation, collaboration and co-construction of ideas are essential for learning. While the stages in the 5E instructional model are itemized in a linear manner, they are most effective when used in a cyclical manner. In a guest editorial, Bybee2014 reflects upon the design of the 5E model and responds to questions, makes recommendations and enumerates the implications for its usage and its applications in the era of the Next Generation Science Standards NGSS2013. He recommends that it would be preferable to have a timeframe longer than a class period as it gives students more time to experience each stage. While he suggests that the model would be effective for a unit of study spanning 2–3 weeks, it would lose its effectiveness if it were used for a longer period of time. According to Bybee, research shows that omitting a phase Bybee-etal2006; NRC1999 or rearranging the sequence of phases Renner, Abraham,Bernie1988 would result in losing the sequence and integrity of the learning cycle model. This aspect might seem that the model is inflexible and thus not suitable for early childhood curriculum; the repetition of phases, however, gives children the chance for extended exploration and reflection. Teachers are allowed the flexibility to add prerequisite information before and after the explanation stage, or where they deem necessary. The 5E instructional model has been used in the primary grades YoonOnchwari2006; however; its use in preschool settings is still in the fledgling stage Miller-etal2013. Over the last century, early childhood pedagogies have been greatly influenced by Piagets notion of childrens investigative competencies, and that learning experiences were designed to be compatible with childrens play-based stages of development Hatch2010.  BREAK Integrating conceptual play in the 5E instructional model
The NSTA2014 position statement on early childhood science education declares that it is important for teachers and educators to recognize and nurture childrens curiosity, and to focus on content and practices of science that lead to the understanding of how these experiences connect to the science content as defined by the Next Generation Science Standards NGSSLeadStates2013. Given that an academic need has arisen, a modified version of the 5E model was used in a science methods course at a Midwestern university in the United States. In a qualitative research study 20 young children 4-year olds from a Child Development Centre, in the Midwest, were taught by the preservice teachers enrolled in the course, Teaching Science in the Elementary School designed for early childhood and elementary education majors. The participation in a field study is a requirement for this course, the lesson plans, observations of childrens interaction with peers and adults in the learning process, and reflections are assigned activities for the field experience.
However, participation in the research study was voluntary. During the first few weeks of classes, the preservice teachers learned how to design inquiry-based learning activities using the modified 5E version of the instructional model specifically, for an outdoor setting. The Child Development Centre has acreage that is designed for exploratory activities to take place in a natural setting. During their outdoor time, the preschoolers are frequently observed climbing logs of wood that are aesthetically placed on the grounds, or building a dam across a ditch with pieces of wood. At other times, they are chasing a frog across the open space or exploring every crevice looking for spiders. The children are so excited to experience the freedom of space as well as the independence to learn by discovery. During each session of the field experience, the preschoolers were assigned to a group of preservice teachers who engaged them in an outdoor inquiry-based lesson that was planned to incorporate topics such as plant and animal characteristics, habitats and other concepts related to the landscape. Bybee-etal2006 attribute the success of the 5E model of instruction to its robust construction. This model consists of five stages, namely, engage, explore, explain, elaborate and evaluate. A description and purpose of the phases in the 5E instructional model are presented within the text of a lesson. A discussion of how each stage is interpreted as conceptual play and is important to the development of a science concept as perceived from a cultural–historical viewpoint is presented in the next section.