Experiential education is often oversimplified as learning by doing Breunig2008; Roberts2011. JohnDewey is often regarded as one of the founders of experiential education. Dewey believed that subject matter should not be learned in isolation and emphasized the important role of the local community and out-of-classroom  BREAK Experiential education embraces transdisciplinary learning experiences to create and recreate knowledge as part of the educative process. Transdisciplinary experiential education extends beyond the commonplace reference to hands on learning activities i.e. field trips or internships to include problem based learning, project-based learning, inquiry-based learning, community academic partnerships, and student-directed learning, among other transdisciplinary pedagogies Breunig2017.  BREAK One transdisciplinary, classroom based platform for student centred experiential education that acknowledges the relationship between individuals and their social and natural environments is inquiry-based learning Gordon2009; Savery2006. Inquiry-based learning specifically involves the open ended investigation into students intuitive queries with teachers serving as provocateurs in moving students forward in their own inquiries OntarioMinistryofEducation2013. In viewing children as knowledge possessing and capable of critical engagement in their own lives, inquiry-based learning places a focus on childrens own questions, observations and interpretations of the world around them as a primary method of instruction Fielding2012; Savery2006.  BREAK One transdisciplinary, classroom-based platform for student-centred experiential education that acknowledges the relationship between individuals and their social and natural environments is inquiry-based learning Gordon2009; Savery2006. Inquiry-based learning specifically involves the open ended investigation into students intuitive queries with teachers serving as provocateurs in moving students forward in their own inquiries OntarioMinistryofEducation2013. In viewing children as knowledge-possessing and capable of critical engagement in their own lives, inquiry-based learning places a focus on childrens own questions, observations and interpretations of the world around them as a primary method of instruction Fielding2012; Savery2006.  BREAK  typical of experiential, inquiry-based learning, which is student centered and involves questioning, gathering information, and discussing and reflecting on ideas to generate new knowledge Breunig2013; Savery2006.
